(upbeat techno music)

Matte black glass, aluminum rails, massive specs, quad cameras, a hidden stylus... oh, wait, hang on a sec. Yeah, no, that was the wrong phone. Sorry. Let’s start that over.

(upbeat techno music continues)

Matte black glass, aluminum rails, massive specs, quad cameras, a hidden stylus. You get the plan.

(upbeat techno music continues)

Hey, what’s up? MKBHD here, and this is the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra. 

When this first came out and got revealed, it was easy to just write it off as an incremental upgrade. I mean, look at it. Aesthetically speaking, it’s basically the same phone. The side radii are squared off more, so it feels a bit better in the hand—much more boxy like the Notes of the past. There are also slightly bigger rings around the cameras, and it’s Gorilla Glass Victus 2 instead of Victus Plus. But as far as size, industrial design, button placement, and ports, it’s basically the same phone.

However, there are two real upgrades to this phone. Keep in mind that this is replacing the Galaxy S22 Ultra, which was already my best big phone of the year from last year. The battery, screen, and performance were all rock solid across the board, so there’s not a lot that I would naturally want to change. But there are two things that are arguably the most important: the chip that runs it all and the cameras.

You might have heard about the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. It’s been a really good chip in other phones it’s been in, offering excellent CPU and GPU performance that’s also very efficient, which impacts battery life. The entire S23 lineup comes with a Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy, a customized version of the chip specifically for these Samsung phones. If you watched my last video about how Apple is taking back the iPhone, then you know that optimization and customization for parts inside phones is typically a good thing. 

The only customization we’ve really seen for this chip is a slightly higher max clock speed on the performance core and a slightly higher clock speed on the GPU—3.36GHz instead of 3.2 on the performance core and 719MHz versus 680 on the GPU. So yeah, it does score slightly better in benchmarks than the regular Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, which is nice for a little extra headroom for high-performance tasks, light gaming, and future-proofing. But that’s not the whole story.

There are two main things that matter here: one is efficiency gains. Obviously, performance is awesome, but with better efficiency, these phones get some serious battery life improvements that we’ll talk about in a second. The other is that there’s no more Exynos, as they aren’t making an Exynos version of this phone anywhere. Every S23 Ultra is shipping with a Qualcomm chip, so everyone gets the efficiency and performance gains from the Qualcomm version.

Let me tell you, the battery life on this phone has been incredible—really, really good. It's a 5,000mAh battery again, which shouldn’t be a surprise, but with this huge screen, I guess it kind of is. I had a two-day period at 120Hz but 1080p resolution, where the only time I charged it was using the wireless charger in my car during my 40-minute drive to and from the studio. I didn’t charge it overnight or anything like that. 

Two fully packed days of high brightness and high intensity, with normal use for me, ended up with something like eight and a half hours of screen-on time. I was in bed at about 11 PM on the second day, streaming on YouTube live while watching LeBron break Kareem’s record, and it still had approximately 10% left—it just wouldn’t die.

So combining this excellent battery life with solid 45W charging that can go from zero to 100% in an hour, plus wireless charging, gives you a battery monster. It’s super impressive. I don’t think enough people are talking about how much better the battery life has gotten. Maybe someone will do one of those crazy long runtime demos versus the past phone, but it’s really good—probably better than you think. You don’t need to switch to 1080p to save battery; in fact, when you take it out of the box, just go ahead and switch it to 1440p because you spent $1,200 on this phone, and it lasts forever. Treat yourself!

Okay, anyway, that’s the chip—that’s what it enables. There’s also a new set of cameras, with hardware and software across the board that’s better than you might think. The fundamentals are mostly the same, which is why this phone probably gets written off quickly. The layout, aesthetics, focal lengths, and arrangement are all pretty much the same. 

But we do have a new 200-megapixel primary camera with double the optical image stabilization (OIS) range compared to before—that’s hugely important. There are new sensors across the ultra-wide, 3X telephoto, and 10X periscope cameras. Now, we keep saying that cameras are mostly about software, and for the look and style of the photos, that remains true. But the improvement to stabilization is so important. 

When you go from a normal sensor to a super high-resolution 200-megapixel sensor, in these tiny smartphone cameras, the individual pixels are so small that they can’t bring in that much light individually. The camera does this thing called pixel binning, which combines information from multiple adjacent pixels to form larger, more accurate pixels in your final image. So you’re not shooting 200 megapixels by default; it’s actually binning 16 pixels into one, resulting in a 12.5-megapixel shot for normal photos. Each photo is theoretically more accurate because of how it’s constructed.

As I mentioned, the stabilization performance on the new primary camera has also doubled. (phone rattles) It still rattles a little bit, but that means it can now correct up to three degrees of shake versus the 1.5 degrees from before. For example, if you have a lens with good optical image stabilization, (lens rattles) it can correct for more movement in your hand. This allows you to hold the camera stable for longer, letting the shutter stay open to collect more light while still getting a sharp photo.

So, all of this means that photos from the Galaxy S23 Ultra, most of the time in most lighting conditions, look pretty similar to last year. If that’s all you’re judging it on—just normal side-by-sides—this largely comes down to different software tuning. There’s a bit more dynamic range than last year, and the photos are typically warm from these Samsung phones with a slightly punchier, more contrasty look than before. They still stay true to the Samsung aesthetic of being colorful and saturated, which is an aesthetic I really like. 

Additionally, having this new sensor and optical stabilization means you can shoot literally 200-megapixel photos if you want to. This allows for capturing much more detail in landscapes. If you plan on zooming in on shots later, or if you’re one of the few people who will actually print a smartphone photo, this capability is there for you. However, keep in mind that it really needs excellent lighting to produce those results; otherwise, you’re going to get a lot of noise. 

And speaking of noise, there’s also considerable shutter lag with these massive 40-50 megabyte files. Granted, this mode is mostly for things that are stationary, like landscapes or photo shoots, but it’s worth noting. A better compromise is the 50-megapixel mode, which produces detailed images that hold up well against the iPhone's 48-megapixel ProRAW shots in various lighting conditions. In this mode, however, the files are about five megabytes, and there’s much less shutter lag, but you still benefit from improved detail over regular binned shots and experience less noise. 

It’s all about flexibility. The standard mode is going to be best for most shots most of the time, but you can always bump it up if you want. This is also true for the zoom; any phone with two different telephoto cameras is going to provide the best range of good zoom performance. For this phone, anything past 10X really shines compared to others. You might have seen my recent clip of taking a photo of the full moon—it seems to blow people’s minds every time they see it.

But we can’t forget about video. This phone has improved video across the board, thanks to better processing, new sensors, and the much better stabilization due to the enhanced OIS. This might be the best super steady mode I’ve ever seen in smartphone video, and because it’s based on optical stabilization, it works well in various lighting conditions—unlike some electronic image stabilization, which relies on abundant light.

On top of all that, the 8K video on this smartphone is very usable. Previous phones with 8K video often capped at 24 frames per second, which isn’t ideal for video. This phone offers 8K at 30 frames per second, which is great. If you put it side-by-side with 4K, you can see the sharpness difference if you zoom in. For a sample, the latest focus video I shot in my car is in 8K from this phone, and you can check it out on YouTube right now. Don’t forget to hit that like button if you enjoy it!

Oh yeah, and also, let’s talk about the improved selfies. There’s a new 12-megapixel selfie camera in all these S23 phones. While the megapixel count is lower than the 40-megapixel selfie camera that came before it, it’s actually better. It’s solid proof that megapixels don’t always matter. This selfie camera, with enhanced software processing, is very sharp and detailed, has nice color, and doesn’t flare too much. Plus, it has a decently wide angle—not ultra-wide but still good.

Across the board, this is a significant and extensive improvement to the camera, especially the primary camera, which feels overlooked when people review the phone. The one complaint I still have is that there is still shutter lag, which is different from the slow shutter speed. The time gap between pressing the shutter button and actually capturing the photo is still noticeable and can be annoying, even if you capture a crisp photo of the wrong moment. 

As I mentioned earlier, the lag is more pronounced when shooting ultra-high resolution 50-megapixel or 200-megapixel photos—you can’t exactly take those in rapid succession. But if the question is, “Did they make a meaningful improvement from last year’s phone?” I would say yes. Between the new chip, better overall performance, much better efficiency resulting in huge battery life improvements, and the new cameras with better sensors and processing, plus much better stabilization, it’s clear they’ve made real strides.

And I don’t really need to say too much about the rest because it’s the same as before, which is a good thing given that last year’s phone was considered the best. All the features that made it the top big phone are still present, and they’re not minor things either. 

I haven’t even talked about the A+ display—1440p, 120Hz LTPO, 1,750 nits peak brightness—it’s still awesome. It still has great speakers, reliable software with a good track record for timely updates, and the base storage has actually increased from 128GB to 256GB, now featuring faster UFS 4.0 storage. It also still has the best stylus in a smartphone worldwide, which might mean more to you than it does to me. Still, it’s nice to know I can at any time mark up a screenshot or sign a PDF. 

And the list goes on: great haptic feedback, nice clicky buttons—all of it is still here. This phone sets the standard pretty high. My analogy is that it feels like the “Portion 9/11” of smartphones. If you're going to charge $1,200 for a phone, it better hit high marks across the board—and it does. It’s pretty underrated, kind of boring, but it does its job well.

Now, if you want the S23 Ultra to look as improved as it actually is, I would recommend a skin from our channel sponsor, dbrand—maybe something like this Damascus skin, which adds a lot of character where it would ordinarily be pretty blank. My favorite is the Triple Black, which is included for free when you pick up any of the holographic colorways. You can check them out at the link below.

I say this phone is boring, but I think “understated” might be the better word. Will other phones come out this year that exceed this phone in certain categories? Yeah, definitely. There are probably going to be phones with 120X zoom and much faster charging—this one is only 45W charging. Do I wish that was better? A little bit, sometimes. Is there going to be a phone with a much bigger, better, faster fingerprint reader? 

(soft bright music) 

Yeah, probably. But as far as just nailing all the marks across the board, this phone does it. In terms of the overall package, Samsung’s software is settled, the screen is sublime, it still has the best stylus, and it captures significantly smoother shots. 

Thanks for watching—catch you guys in the next one! Peace.

(bright music continues)