(Intro sounds)

This brand new smartphone from 2023 has a 6.5-inch, 90 hertz display featuring a hole-punch cutout, a 5,000 milliamp-hour battery, triple cameras, a micro SD card slot for expandable storage, a headphone jack, and water resistance, all for $169. Nice, but what’s the catch? There’s got to be a catch, right? 

I've said it before, and I'll say it again: good phones are getting cheap, and cheap phones are getting good. This video will focus on the second part of that, which is the cheap phones that are getting so good. This phone recently hit my inbox. It’s called the Moto G Play for 2023, and if you’ve been paying attention, Motorola has been making a lot of really good budget phones over the past couple of years. I wanted to personally find out how you can end up with a phone that’s a tenth the price of the ones I've been really enjoying.

On the outside, it’s a pretty big phone, which I like. It features a 6.5-inch flat 90 hertz LCD display. It’s not the best-looking screen you’ve ever seen; it’s only 720p, so I can literally see pixels sometimes. It doesn’t get very bright, and the viewing angles are pretty poor if you get off axis. The bezels are slightly thicker, especially at the chin, and there’s a bit of light fall-off around the hole-punch camera at the top. But can you really pixel peep at this price? This is plenty of screen for texting, web browsing, navigation, flipping through apps, and scrolling through social media—the classic stuff you want to do on a phone. Mission accomplished. It’s a big screen, so that’s not the catch.

As for the build, you may have noticed that it’s made of plastic. However, the layout is perfectly fine. You have the port and speakers at the bottom, a headphone jack at the top, and expandable storage alongside the SIM card tray right where it belongs. On the back, there’s a decently-fast fingerprint reader located in that classic Motorola dimple spot. The layout is well-designed, and it absolutely does not bend or creak. Plus, you might have heard that plastic is not the end of the world when it comes to smartphone builds. While premium phones feel heavier and more premium with glass, plastic can often be more durable if you drop it. Some people also prefer a lighter-weight phone when it’s this big. Additionally, it is still water resistant. I can't say it's waterproof; it’s IP52, but it is water resistant. So, the build—that’s not the catch.

Now, what about the battery? You might be wondering. The battery is excellent—perfectly unironically so. It’s a 5,000 milliamp-hour battery powering a phone with a 720p display, which means you’re good for a day and a half easily. Two light days is no problem with seven hours of screen-on time. It only supports up to 10-watt charging, which is pretty slow, and there is no wireless charging, but I won’t consider that a drawback at this price. You can just charge it overnight like a normal person, and battery life will be fine.

Even the software is really good. It provides a nearly identical experience to their $1,000 flagship Edge phone, which means near stock Android with some extra Motorola features sprinkled on top. At its core, it feels similar to a Pixel when you dig through quick settings, notifications, and the launcher. You'll also find some Motorola widgets tucked in, a few extra settings in the settings app, and the Moto app that lets you access extra gestures and features they’ve perfected over the years. These include the double chop for the flashlight, three-finger screenshot, peek display for notifications, and swiping down on the notification panel from the fingerprint reader on the back. The only feature not included might be the double twist to quickly open the camera, probably because the camera is not one of the highlights of these low-cost phones.

As for the camera, it’s functional, which is what you would hope for at this price. While I’m not a huge fan of the triple camera layout—because they’re trying to look premium—the top one is a 2-megapixel macro camera and the bottom one is a 2-megapixel depth camera for portrait mode. I mainly want the 16-megapixel main camera to capture scenes and documents, take photos and videos without issues, and it does function well, especially in good lighting. It won’t win any comparison tests, that’s for sure, but we ask a lot of our phones. The fact that this $169 gadget can make phone calls, send text messages, navigate you, play games, browse the web, and take decent pictures and 1080p videos is solid.

Initially, I was skeptical about whether it would utilize the depth camera for portrait-mode shots, but it did notify me when I covered it while trying to take a photo. This shows that it’s paying attention. However, when I took the photo and adjusted the background blur, the cutout shape looked truly bizarre. It’s really bad—one of the worst I’ve ever seen. They really just said, "Yeah, we’ll save a bit of processing power here." 

But that is the catch. It’s not the build quality—that’s fine. It’s certainly not the battery life—that's great. It’s not the cameras, nor is it the software. The catch is that this phone is slow—really slow. This phone has a MediaTek Helio G37 chip with three gigabytes of RAM. Other phones with this chipset include the Techno Spark 9, the Infinix Hot 12, and the HONOR X7a, all retailing for well under $150. So clearly, it’s a cheap chip, which is how it ended up in this phone. 

For context, the Geekbench score of the iPhone 14 is considerably higher than that of the Moto G Play. When I say it’s trying to save processing power by not performing detailed portrait cutouts, I actually mean it—it lacks any meaningful processing power. I’m not nitpicking to say it’s slow only with high-end games; this phone is slow all the time. It’s slow to scroll and navigate the UI. 

Now, remember I mentioned that this phone has a variable 90 hertz display? I’ll be honest—it would have taken me a while to tell because it is almost never anywhere near 60 hertz. It constantly hangs and stutters, and it’s slow to unlock and open apps—even normal ones. The settings app takes an embarrassingly long time to open and search through. Some of this could be attributed to storage speed, to be fair, but the point is, this is the catch. This phone is slower than average to take pictures, slow to type or browse, and high-end gaming or photo editing is practically out of the question. It might be the slowest phone I’ve ever used, which can make it quite unpleasant to operate.

As I used this phone longer, I found myself pondering a big question: is it better to get a new cheap phone like this or an older, once-expensive flagship? For instance, this phone is $169 brand new, while this OnePlus 7 Pro—one of my all-time favorites—was the phone of the year in 2019 and retailed for $669. Now, you can easily find it for well under $200 secondhand. 

If we compare dollar for dollar with the Moto, the OnePlus 7 Pro provides a much better experience across the board. Even though the Snapdragon 855 is a few years old, it’s far more capable and part of a smoother overall performance profile with faster storage and more RAM. It features a much nicer OLED screen, which is sharper, brighter, and actually achieves the 90 hertz refresh rate consistently. It also has more built-in storage, although it’s not expandable, and a better camera setup—primary, ultra-wide, and zoom. The OnePlus is built from glass, which feels solid, and it offers a 4,000 milliamp-hour battery, perhaps the only hardware feature where you could call it a draw or a slight win for the Moto.

We can't forget that OnePlus was famous for its warp charging, as this older flagship can do 30 watts of wired charging. It’s becoming pretty clear that the old flagship is better. However, one distinct advantage of the budget phone is that, being new, it will likely receive software updates further into the future than the old phone. This is theoretical, of course—Motorola does not have the best track record with this—but it’s worth mentioning. For example, the Samsung A14 5G has a similar spec sheet and price point, and it will probably receive more software updates than the Moto. 

Even if a flagship phone is promised three to four years of updates and the budget phone gets only two, once the flagship phone is more than about three years old, its advantage diminishes. The OnePlus 7 Pro is probably done with software updates while the Moto may still have a few left. It's amusing how people view software updates. Some people don’t think about them at all or even avoid them, which I wouldn’t recommend; security patches are essential.

So, this is one point that leans toward the new phone. Additionally, the final aspect in favor of the older phone is environmental impact. Purchasing an older model that’s built to last and getting an extra 2, 3, or 4 years out of it is better for the environment overall. It results in less e-waste, so that’s a strong argument for the older device.

My general thought after examining the landscape of old flagships versus new budget phones is that the lower the price of the phone, the more inclined I would be to recommend the older model. For instance, at $169 based on my experience with this phone, I would definitely prefer the older flagship. There are plenty of good flagship models available for around $200, including this one and the Pixel 5. Secondhand options are quite good.

However, if you go up to about $400, it becomes slightly more debatable. Certain factors might still point me toward the older flagship, but around $600, there are some excellent brand-new options that I would prefer while also enjoying the benefits of software updates. There’s not much better than the Pixel 7 right now.

So that’s the theory.
(Brass fanfare blaring)

In summary, at this price point, I’d prefer a prehistoric premium phone over a currently pleasantly priced one. Thanks for watching! Talk to you in the next one. Peace. 

(Brassy music continues)

Pleasantly presently—that’s amusing.