The subcommittee hearing on Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAPs) begins with the Chair declaring the meeting in order and welcoming everyone. The members of the subcommittee are waived onto the hearing without objection. The Chair and Ranking Member will each have 10 minutes for opening remarks. The Chair emphasizes the importance of the hearing and thanks military pilots and personnel for their participation in bringing attention to UAPs. The lack of transparency in UAPs has fueled speculation and eroded public trust. Entity such as AARO and NASA have been established to examine UAPs, but there is a pressing demand for government transparency and accountability. The Biden administration's handling of the Chinese spy balloon incident and subsequent UAP events has raised concerns about government transparency. Congress recognizes the importance of objective inquiry and seeks to improve reporting for military and civilians. The hearing is not just about debating the existence of UAPs, but also about transparency and accountability. The Subcommittee will seek clarity from the witnesses' testimonies and explore ways to improve government efficiency and openness regarding UAPs. Representative Burchett from Tennessee also speaks and emphasizes the non-partisanship of this issue. He thanks his colleagues and introduces supportive statements from George Knapp and Jeremy Korbel. He acknowledges the difficulties faced in organizing the hearing and emphasizes the need for government transparency and trust. Representative Luna from Florida states that the lack of transparency and over-classified documents have led to the perception of a cover-up regarding UAPs. Polls show that the American public believes the government is hiding information about UAPs and disapproves of their handling of UFO sightings. Eyewitness testimonies from pilots and other credible witnesses should be taken seriously. Luna expresses the need for an open-minded discussion and a deeper understanding of the potential implications of UAPs. The Ranking Member Garcia also expresses his gratitude to the witnesses for their service and participation. He commends Congressman Burchett's leadership and thanks all the members and staff involved in the hearing.