We try to build the thing and then we go, hang on a minute. There's another system here. And that's actually the attempt to build AI that's human-like is getting us to a deeper understanding of human beings. The funny thing that I recently talked to Magnus Carlsen, widely considered to be the greatest chess player of all time. And he talked about AlphaZero, which is a system from DeepMind that plays chess. And he had a funny comment He has a kind of dry sense of humor. But he was extremely impressed when he first saw AlphaZero play. And he said that it did a lot of things that could easily be mistaken for creativity. So he, as a typical human, refused to give the system sort of its due. Because he came up with a lot of things that a lot of people are extremely impressed by. Not just the sheer calculation, but the brilliance of play. So one of the things that it does in really interesting ways is it sacrifices pieces. So in chess, that means you basically take a few steps back in order to take a step forward. You give away pieces for some future reward. And that, for us humans, is where art is in chess. You take big risks. That, for us humans, those risks are especially painful because you have a fog of uncertainty before you. So to take a risk now, based on intuition, of I think this is the right risk to take, but there's so many possibilities that that's where it takes guts. That's where art is. That's that danger. And then AlphaZero takes those same kind of risks and does them even greater degree. But of course, it does it from a, where you could easily reduce down to a cold calculation over patterns. But boy, when you see the final result, it sure looks like the same kind of magic that we see in creativity. When we see creative play on the chessboard. But the chessboard is very limited. And the question is, as we get better and better, can we do that same kind of creativity in mathematics, in programming, and then eventually in biology, psychology, and expand into more and more complex systems? I was, used to go running when I was a boy, and fell running, which is to say running up and down mountains. And I was never particularly great at it, but there were some people who were amazingly fast, especially at running down. And I realized in trying to do this that there's only really two way, there's three possible ways of doing it. And there's only two that work. Either you go extremely slowly and carefully and you figure out, okay, there's a stone. I'll put my foot on this stone. And then there's another, there's a muddy puddle I'm going to avoid. You know, it's slow, it's laborious. You figure it out step-by-step. Or you can just go incredibly fast and you don't think about it at all. The entire conscious mind is shut out of it. And it's probably the same playing table tennis or something. There's something in the mind which is doing a whole lot of subconscious calculations about exactly, and it's amazing. You can run at astonishing speed down a hillside with no idea how you did it at all. And then you panic and you think, I'm going to break my leg if I keep doing this. I've got to think about where I'm going to put my foot. So you slow down a bit and try to bring those conscious mind in. And then you do, you crash. You can't, you cannot think consciously while running downhill. So it's amazing. It's amazing how many calculations the mind is able to make. And now the problem with playing chess or something, if you were able to make all of those subconscious kind of forward calculations about what is the likely outcome of this move now in the way that we can by running down a hillside or something, you know, it's partly about what we have adapted to do. It's partly about the reality of the world that we're in. Running fast downhill is something that we better be bloody good at otherwise we're going to be eaten. Whereas trying to calculate multiple, multiple moves into the future is not something we've ever been called on to do. Two or three, four moves into the future is quite enough for most of us most of the time. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, just solving chess may not, we may not be as far towards solving the problem of downhill running as we might think just because we solve chess. Still, it's beautiful to see creativity. Humans create machines that are able to create art and art on a chess board and art otherwise. Who knows how far that takes us? So I mentioned Andrej Karpathy earlier. Him and I are big fans of yours. If you're taking votes, his suggestion was you should write your next book on the Fermi paradox. So let me ask you on the topic of alien life. Since we've been talking about life and we're a kind of aliens, how many alien civilizations are out there do you think? Well, the universe is very big. So some, but not as many as most people would like to think is my view because the idea that there is a trajectory going from simple cellular life like bacteria all the way through to humans. It seems to me there's some big gaps along that way that the eukaryotic cell, the complex cell that we have is the biggest of them, but also photosynthesis is another. The other interesting gap is a long gap from the origin of the eukaryotic cell to the first animals. That was about a billion years, maybe more than that. A long delay in when oxygen began to accumulate in the atmosphere. So from the first appearance of oxygen in the great oxidation event to enough for animals to respire, it was close to 2 billion years. Why so long? It seems to be planetary factors. It seems to be geology as much as anything else. And we don't really know what was going on. So the idea that there's a kind of an inevitable march towards complexity and sentient life, I don't think is right. Doesn't, not to say it's not gonna happen, but I think it's not gonna happen often. So if you think of Earth, given the geological constraints and all that kind of stuff, do you have a sense that life, complex life, intelligent life happened really quickly on Earth or really long? So just to get a sense of, are you more sort of saying that it's very unlikely to get the kind of conditions required to create humans? Or is it even if you have the condition, it's just statistically difficult? I think the, I mean, the problem, the single great problem at the center of all of that, to my mind, is the origin of the eukaryote cell, which happened once. And without eukaryotes, nothing else would have happened. And that is something that- That's because you're saying it's super important, the eukaryotes, but- I'm saying a tantamount to saying that it is impossible to build something as complex as a human being from bacterial cells. Totally agree in some deep fundamental way. But it's just like one cell going inside another. Is that so difficult to get to work right? That like- Well, again, it happened once. And if you think about, if you think, I'm in a minority view in this position. Most biologists probably wouldn't agree with me anyway. But if you think about the starting point, we've got a simple cell. It's an archaeal cell. We can be fairly sure about that. So it looks a lot like a bacterium, but it's in fact from this other domain of life. So it looks a lot like a bacterial cell. That means it doesn't have anything. It doesn't have a nutrients. It doesn't really have complex endomembrane. It has a little bit of stuff, but not that much. And it takes up an endosymbiont. So what happens next? And the answer is basically everything to do with complexity. To me, there's a beautiful paradox here. Plants and animals and fungi all have exactly the same type of cell, but they all have really different ways of living. So a plant cell is photosynthetic. They started out as algae in the oceans and so on. So think of algal blooms, single cell things. The basic cell structure that it's built from is exactly the same with a couple of small differences. It's got chloroplasts as well. It's got a vacuole. It's got a cell wall, but that's about it. Pretty much everything else is exactly the same in a plant cell and an animal cell. And yet the ways of life are completely different. So this cell structure did not evolve in response to different ways of life, different environments. I'm in the ocean doing photosynthesis. I'm on land running around as part of an animal. I'm a fungus in a soil, spending out long kind of shoots into whatever it may be, mycelium. So they all have the same underlying cell structure. Why? Almost certainly, it was driven by adaptation to the internal environment, to having these pesky endosymbionts that forced all kinds of change on the host cell. Now, in one way, you could see that as a really good thing because it may be that there's some inevitability to this process that as soon as you've got endosymbionts, you're more or less bound to go in that direction. Or it could be that there's a huge fluke about it and it's almost certain to go wrong in just about every case possible, that the conflict will lead to effectively war, leading to death and extinction, and it simply doesn't work out. So maybe it happened millions of times and it went wrong every time, or maybe it only happened once and it worked out because it was inevitable. And actually, we simply do not know enough now to say which of those two possibilities is true, but both of them are a bit grim. But you're leaning towards, we just got really lucky in that one leap. So do you have a sense that our galaxy, for example, has just maybe millions of planets with bacteria living on it? I would expect billions, tens of billions of planets with bacteria living on it, practically. I mean, there's probably, what, five to 10 planets per star, of which I would hope that at least one would have bacteria on. So I expect bacteria to be very common. I simply can't put a number otherwise. I mean, I expect it will happen elsewhere. It's not that I think we're living in a completely empty universe. That's so fascinating. But I think that it's not gonna happen inevitably, and there's something, that's not the only problem with complex life on Earth. I mentioned oxygen and animals and so on as well. And even humans, we came along very late. You go back five million years and would we be that impressed if we came across a planet full of giraffes? I mean, you'd think, hey, there's life here. There's a nice planet to colonize or something. We wouldn't think, oh, let's try and have a conversation with this giraffe. Yeah, I'm not sure what exactly we would think. I'm not exactly sure what makes humans so interesting from an alien perspective, or how they would notice. I'll talk to you about cities too, because that's an interesting perspective of how to look at human civilization. But your sense, I mean, of course you don't know, but it's an interesting world. It's an interesting galaxy. It's an interesting universe to live in that's just like every sun, like 90% of solar systems have bacteria in it. Like, imagine that world. And the galaxy maybe has just a handful, if not one, intelligent civilization. That's a wild world. It's a wild world. I didn't even think about that world. There's a kind of thought that, like one of the reasons it was. it would be so exciting to find life on Mars or Titan or whatever. It's like if it's life is elsewhere, then surely, statistically, that life, no matter how unlikely, eukaryotes, multicellular organisms, sex, violence, what else is extremely difficult? I mean, photosynthesis, figuring out some machinery that involves the chemistry in the environment to allow the building up of complex organisms, surely that would arise. But man, I don't know how I would feel about just bacteria everywhere. Well, it would be depressing if it was true. I suppose depressing. I don't think, I don't. I don't know what's more depressing, bacteria everywhere or nothing everywhere. Yes, either of them are chilling. Yeah. But whether it's chilling or not, I don't think should force us to change our view about whether it's real or not. What I'm saying may or may not be true. So how would you feel if we discovered life on Mars? I'd be- It sounds like you would be less excited than some others because you're like, well. What I would be most interested in is how similar to life on Earth it would be. It would actually turn into quite a subtle problem because the likelihood of life having gone to and fro between Mars and the Earth is quite, I wouldn't say high, but it's not low. It's quite feasible.