The great thing about genes and about selection is it just knocks down all those limits, it gives you a world of information in the end which is limited only by the biophysical reality of what kind of an organism you are, what kind of a planet you live on, and so on, and cities and all these other forms that look alive and could be described as alive, because they can't propagate themselves. can only exist as the product of something that did propagate itself. Yeah. I mean, there's a deeply compelling truth to that kind of way of looking at things, but I just hope that we don't miss the giant cloud among us. I kind of hope that I'm wrong about a lot of this because I can't say that my worldview is particularly uplifting, but in some sense, it doesn't matter if it's uplifting or not. Science is about what's reality, what's out there, why is it this way? And I think there's beauty in that too. There's beauty in darkness. You write about life and death sort of at the biological level. Does the question of suicide, why live, does the question of why the human mind is capable of depression, are you able to introspect that from a place of biology? Why our minds, why we humans can go to such dark places? Why can we commit suicide? Why can we go suffer? Suffer, period, but also suffer from a feeling of meaninglessness, of going to a dark place that depression can take you. Is this a feature of life or is it a bug? I don't know. I mean, if it's a feature of life, then I suppose it would have to be true of other organisms as well. And I don't know. We were talking about dogs earlier on and they can certainly be very sad and upset and may mooch for days after their owner died or something like that. So I suspect in some sense, it's a feature of biology. It's probably a feature of mortality. It's probably a... But beyond all of that, I mean, I guess there's two ways you could come at it. One of them would be to say, well, you can effectively do the math and come to the conclusion that it's all pointless and that there's really no point in me being here any longer. And maybe that's true. In the greater scheme of things, you can justify yourself in terms of society, but society will be gone soon enough as well. And you end up with a very bleak place just by logic. In some sense, it's surprising that we can find any meaning at all. Well, maybe this is where consciousness comes in, that we have transient joy, but with transient joy, we have transient misery as well. And sometimes with everything in biology, getting the regulation right is practically impossible. You will always have a bell-shaped curve where some people, unfortunately, are at the joy end and some people are at the misery end. And that's the way brains are wired. And I doubt there's ever an escape from that. It's the same with sex and everything else as well, where dealing with it, you can't regulate it. So anything goes, it's all part of biology. Amen to that. Let me, on writing. In your book, Power, Sex, and Suicide, first of all, can I just read off the books you've written? If there's any better titles and topics to be covered, I don't know what they are. It makes me look forward to whatever you're going to write next. I hope there's things you write next. So first you wrote Oxygen, the Molecule That Made the World, as we've talked about this idea of the role of oxygen in life on Earth. Then, wait for it, Power, Sex, Suicide, Mitochondria and the Meaning of Life. Then, Life Ascending, the 10 Great Inventions of Evolution, The Vital Question, the first book I've read of yours, The Vital Question, Why is Life the Way It Is? And the new book, Transformer, The Deep Chemistry of Life and Death. In Power, Sex, and Suicide, you write about writing, or about a lot of things, but I have a question about writing. You write, in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Ford Perfect spends 15 years researching his revision to the guide's entry on the Earth, which originally read harmless. By the way, I would also, as a side quest, as a side question, would like to ask you what would be your summary of what Earth is. You write, his long essay on the subject is edited down by the guide to read mostly harmless. I suspect that too many new editions suffer a similar fate, if not through absurd editing decisions, at least through a lack of meaningful change in content. As it happens, nearly 15 years have passed since the first edition of Power, Sex, and Suicide was published, and I am resisting the temptation to make any lame revisions. Some say that even Darwin lessened the power of his arguments in The Origin of Species through his multiple revisions, in which he dealt with criticisms and sometimes shifted his views in the wrong direction. I prefer my original to speak for itself, even if it turns out to be wrong. Let me ask the question about writing, both your students in the academic setting, but also writing some of the most brilliant writings on science and humanity I've ever read. What's the process of writing? How do you advise other humans? If you were to talk to young Darwin, or the young you, and just young anybody, and give advice about how to write, and how to write well about these big topics, what would you say? I mean, I suppose there's a couple of points. One of them is, what's the story? What do I wanna know? What do I wanna convey? Why does it matter to anybody? And very often, the biggest, most interesting questions, the childlike questions are the one that actually everybody wants to ask, but don't quite do it in case they look stupid. And one of the nice things about being in science is the longer you're in, the more you realize that everybody doesn't know the answer to these questions, and it's not so stupid to ask them after all. So trying to ask the questions that I would have been asking myself at the age of 15, 16, when I was really hungry to know about the world, and didn't know very much about it, and wanted to go to the edge of what we know, but be helped to get there. I don't wanna be, you know, too much terminology, and so I want someone to keep a clean eye on what the question is. Beyond that, I've wondered a lot about who am I writing for? And that was, in the end, the only answer I had was myself at the age of 15 or 16. Because even if you're, you know, you can, you just don't know who's reading, but also where are they reading it? Are they reading it in the bath, or in bed, or on the metro, or are they listening to an audio book? Do you wanna have a recapitulation every few pages, because you read three pages at a time, or are you really irritated by that? You know, you're going to get criticism from people who are irritated by what you're doing, and you don't know who they are, or what you're gonna do that's gonna irritate people, and in the end, all you can do is just try and please yourself. And that means, well, what are these big, fun, fascinating, big questions? And what do we know about it? And can I convey that? And I kind of learned in trying to write, first of all, say what we know. And I was shocked in the first couple of books how often I came up quickly against all the stuff we don't know. And if you're trying to, I realized later on in supervising various physicists and mathematicians who are PhD students, and their maths is way beyond what I can do, but the process of trying to work out what are we actually gonna model here? What's going into this equation? It's a very similar one to writing. What am I gonna put on a page? What's the simplest possible way I can encapsulate this idea, so that I now have it as a unit that I can kind of see how it interacts with the other units? And you realize that, well, if this is like that, and this is like this, then that can't be true. So you end up navigating your own path through this landscape. And that can be thrilling, because you don't know where it's going. And I'd like to think that that's one of the reasons my books have worked for people, because this sense of thrilling adventure ride, I don't know where it's going either. So finding the simplest possible way to explain the things we know, and the simplest possible way to explain the things we don't know, and the tension between those two, and that's where the story emerges. What about the edit? Do you find yourself to the point of this, you know, editing dialed to mostly harmless? To arrive at simplicity, do you find the edit is productive, or does it destroy the magic that was originally there? No, I usually find, I think I'm perhaps a better editor than I am a writer. I write and rewrite and rewrite and rewrite. Put a bunch of crap on the page first, and then see where the edit where it takes you. Yeah, but then there's the professional editors who come along as well. And I mean, in Transformer, the editor came back to me after I'd sent him, two months after I sent the first edition, he'd read the whole thing and he said, the first two chapters prevent a formidable hurdle to the general reader. Go and do something about it. Yes. And it was the last thing I really wanted to do. Your editor sounds very eloquent in speech. Yeah, well, this was an email, but I thought about it and, you know, the bottom line is he was right. And so I put the whole thing aside for about two months, spent the summer, this would have been, I guess, last summer, and then turned to it with full attention in about September or something, and rewrote those chapters almost from scratch. I kept some of the material, but it took me a long time to process it, to work out what needs to change, where does it need to, I wasn't writing in this time, how am I going to tell this story better so it's more accessible and interesting? And in the end, I think it worked. It's still difficult, it's still biochemistry, but he ended up saying, now he's got a barreling energy to it. And I was, you know, because he'd been, because he'd told me the truth the first time, I decided to believe that he was telling me the truth the second time as well and was delighted. Could you give advice to young people in general, folks in high school, folks in college, how to take on some of the big questions you've taken on? Now, you've done that in the space of biology and expanded out. How can they have a career they can be proud of or have a life they can be proud of? Gosh, that's a big question. I mean, I'm sure you've gathered some wisdom that you can impart. Yeah, so the only advice that I actually ever give to my students is follow what you're interested in, because they're often worried that if they make this decision now and do this course instead of that course, then they're gonna restrict their career opportunities and there isn't a career path in science. It's not, I mean, there is, but there isn't. There's a lot of competition. There's a lot of death, symbolically. So who survives? The people who survive are the people who care enough to still do it. And they're very often the people who don't worry too much about the future and are able to live in the present. You do a PhD, you've competed hard to get onto the PhD, then you have to compete hard to get a postdoc job and you have the next bomb maybe on another continent and it's only two years anyway. And so, and there's no guarantee you're gonna get a faculty position at the end of it. So- And there's always the next step to compete. If you get a faculty position, you get a tenure and with tenure, you go full professor, full professor, then you go to some kind of whatever the discipline is, there's an award. If you're in physics, you're always competing for the Nobel Prize, there's different awards. And then eventually you're all competing to, I mean, there's always a competition. So there is no happiness. Happiness does not lie. If you're looking into the future, yes. And if what you're caring about is a career, then it's probably not the one for you. If though you can put that aside, and I've also worked in industry for a brief period and I was made redundant twice, so I know that there's no guarantee that you've got a career that way either. Yes.