If we found life on Mars and it had very similar genetic code, but it was slightly different, most people would interpret that immediately as evidence that there'd been transit one way or the other and that it was a common origin of life on Mars or on the Earth, and it went one way or the other way. The other way to see that question, though, would be to say, well, actually the beginnings of life lie in deterministic chemistry and thermodynamics, starting with the most likely abundant materials, CO2 and water and a wet, rocky planet. And Mars was wet and rocky at the beginning. And we'll, I won't say inevitably, but potentially almost inevitably come up with a genetic code which is not very far away from the genetic code that we already have. So we see subtle differences in the genetic code. What does it mean? It could be very difficult to interpret. Is it possible, do you think, to tell the difference of something that truly originated? I think if the stereochemistry was different, we have sugars, for example, that are the L form or the D form, and we have D sugars and L amino acids right across all of life. But lipids, the bacteria have one stereoisomer and the bacteria have the other, the opposite stereoisomer. So it's perfectly possible to use one or the other one, and the same would almost certainly go for, I think George Church has been trying to make life based on the opposite stereoisomer. So it's perfectly possible to do, and it will work. And if we were to find life on Mars that was using the opposite stereoisomer, that would be unequivocal evidence that life had started independently there. So hopefully, the life we find will be on Titan and Europa or something like that, where it's less likely that we shared, and it's harsher conditions, so there's gonna be weirder kind of life. I wouldn't count on that, because life started in deep sea hydrothermal vents. It's a harsh condition. That's pretty harsh, yeah. So Titan is different. Europa is probably quite similar to Earth in the sense that we're dealing with an ocean. It's an acidic ocean there, as the early Earth would have been, and it almost certainly has hydrothermal systems. Same with Enceladus. We can tell that from these plumes coming from the surface through the ice. We know there's a liquid ocean, and we can tell roughly what the chemistry is. For Titan, we're dealing with liquid methane and things like that, so if there really is life there, it would really have to be very, very different to anything that we know on Earth. So the hardest leap, the most important leap is from Prokaryotes to Eukaryotes, Eukaryotic. What's the second, if we're ranking? What's the, you gave a lot of emphasis on photosynthesis. Yeah, and that would be my second one, I think. But it's not so much, I mean, photosynthesis is part of the problem. It's a difficult thing to do. Again, we know it happened once. We don't know why it happened once. But the fact that it was kind of taken on board completely by plants and algae and so on as chloroplasts and did very well in completely different environments and then on land and whatever else seems to suggest that there's no problem with exploring. You could have a separate origin that explored this whole domain over there that the bacteria had never gone into. So that kind of says that the reason that it only happened once is probably because it's difficult because the wiring is difficult. Yeah. But then it happened at least 2.2 billion years ago, right before the GOE, maybe as long as three billion years ago, when there are, some people say there are whiffs of oxygen, there's just kind of traces in the fossil, in the geochemical record that say maybe there was a bit of oxygen then. That's really disputed. Some people say it goes all the way back four billion years ago and that it was the common ancestry of life on Earth was photosynthetic. So immediately you've got groups of people who disagree over a two billion year period of time about when it started. But well, let's take the latest date when it's unequivocal, that's 2.2 billion years ago, through to around about the time of the Cambrian explosion when oxygen levels definitely got close to modern levels, which was around about 550 million years ago. So we've gone more than one and a half billion years where the Earth was in stasis. Nothing much changed. It's known as the Boring Billion, in fact. Probably stuff was, that was when eukaryotes arose somewhere in there, but it's... So this idea that the world is constantly changing, that we're constantly evolving, that we're moving up some ramp is a very human idea, but in reality, there are kind of tipping points to a new stable equilibrium where cells that are producing oxygen are precisely counterbalanced by the cells that are consuming that oxygen, which is why it's 21% now, and has been that way for hundreds of millions of years. We have a very precise balance. You go through a tipping point and you don't know where the next stable state's gonna be, but it can be a long way from here. And so if we change the world with global warming, there will be a tipping point. The question is where and when, and what's the next stable state? It may be uninhabitable to us. It'll be habitable to life for sure, but there may be something like the Permian extinction where 95% of species go extinct and there's a five to 10 million year gap and then life recovers, but without humans. And the question statistically, well, without humans, but statistically, does that ultimately lead to greater complexity, more interesting life, more intelligent life? Well, after the first appearance of oxygen with the GOE, there was a tipping point which led to a long-term stable state that was equivalent to the Black Sea today, which is to say oxygenated at the very surface and stagnant, sterile, not sterile, but sulfurous, lower down. And that was stable certainly around the continental margins for more than a billion years. It was not a state that led to progression in an obvious way. Yeah, I mean, it's interesting to think about evolution, like what leads to stable states and how often are evolutionary pressures emerging from the environment? So maybe other planets are able to create evolutionary pressures, chemical pressures, whatever, some kind of pressure that say, you're screwed unless you get your shit together in the next like 10,000 years, like a lot of pressure. It seems like Earth, like the boring building might be explained in two ways. One, it's super difficult to take any kind of next step. And the second way it could be explained is there's no reason to take the next step. No, I think there is no reason, but at the end of it, there was a snowball Earth. So there was a planetary catastrophe on a huge scale where the sea was frozen at the equator and that forced change in one way or another. It's not long after that, 100 million years, perhaps after that, so not a short time, but this is when we begin to see animals. There was a shift again, another tipping point that led to catastrophic change that led to a takeoff then. We don't really know why, but one of the reasons why that I discuss in the book is about sulfate being washed into the oceans, which sounds incredibly parochial. But the issue is, I mean, what the data is showing, we can track roughly how oxygen was going into the atmosphere from carbon isotopes. So there's two main isotopes of carbon that we need to think about here. One is carbon-12, 99% of carbon is carbon-12. And then 1% of carbon is carbon-13, which is a stable isotope. And then there's carbon-14, which is a trivial radioactive, trivial amount. So carbon-13 is 1%, and life and enzymes generally, you can think of carbon atoms as little balls bouncing around, bing-bong balls bouncing around. Carbon-12 moves a little bit faster than carbon-13 because it's lighter, and it's more likely to encounter an enzyme. And so it's more likely to be fixed into organic matter. And so organic matter is enriched, and this is just an observation, it's enriched in carbon-12 by a few percent compared to carbon-13 relative to what you would expect if it was just equal. And if you then bury organic matter as coal or oil or whatever it may be, then it's no longer oxidized. So some oxygen remains left over in the atmosphere. And that's how oxygen accumulates in the atmosphere. And you can work out historically how much oxygen there must've been in the atmosphere by how much carbon was being buried. And you think, well, how can we possibly know how much carbon was being buried? And the answer is, well, if you're burying carbon-12 what you're leaving behind is more carbon-13 in the oceans and that precipitates out as limestone. So you can look at limestones over these ages and work out what's the carbon-13 signal. And that gives you a kind of a feedback on what the oxygen content. Right before the Cambrian explosion, there was what's called a negative isotope anomaly excursion which is basically the carbon-13 goes down by a massive amount and then back up again 10 million years later. And what that seems to be saying is the amount of carbon-12 in the oceans was disappearing which is to say it was being oxidized. And if it's being oxidized, it's consuming oxygen and that should, so a big carbon-13 signal says the ratio of carbon-12 to carbon-13 is really going down, which means there's much more carbon-12 being taken out and being oxidized. Sorry, this is getting too complex, but. Well, it's a good way to estimate the amount of oxygen. If you calculate the amount of oxygen based on the assumption that all this carbon-12 that's being taken out is being oxidized by oxygen, the answer is all the oxygen in the atmosphere gets stripped out, there is none left. And yet the rest of the geological indicators say, no, there's oxygen in the atmosphere. So it's kind of a paradox. And the only way to explain this paradox just on mass balance of how much stuff is in the air, how much stuff is in the oceans and so on is to assume that oxygen was not the oxygen, it was sulfate. Sulfate was being washed into the oceans. It's used as an electron acceptor by sulfate-reducing bacteria, just as we use oxygen as an electron acceptor. So they pass their electrons to sulfate instead of oxygen. And- Bacteria did. Yeah, yeah. So these are bacteria. So they're oxidizing carbon, organic carbon, with sulfate, passing the electrons onto sulfate. That reacts with iron to form iron pyrite, or fool's gold, sinks down to the bottom, gets buried out of the system. And this can account for the mass balance. So why does it matter? It matters because what it says is there was a chance event. Tectonically, there was a lot of sulfate sitting on land as some kind of mineral. So calcium sulfate minerals, for example, are evaporitic. And because there happened to be some continental collisions, mountain building, the sulfate was pushed up the side of a mountain and happened to get washed into the ocean. Yeah, so I wonder how many happy accidents like that are possible. Yeah, statistically, it's really hard. Maybe you can rule that in statistically, but this is the course of life on Earth. Without all that sulfate being raised up, this Cambrian explosion almost certainly would not have happened. And then we wouldn't have had animals and so on and so on. So it's this kind of explanation of the Cambrian explosion. So let me actually say in several ways. So folks who challenge the validity of the theory of evolution will give us an example. Now, I'm not well-studied in this, but will give us an example of the Cambrian explosion as like, this thing is weird. Oh, it is weird, yeah. So the question I would have is, what's the biggest mystery or gap in understanding about evolution? Is it the Cambrian explosion? And if so, what's our best understanding of how to explain, first of all, what is it? In my understanding, in a short amount of time, maybe 10 million years, 100 million years, something like that, a huge number of animals, a variety, diversity of animals were created. Anyway, there's like five questions in there. Is that the biggest mystery? No, I don't think it's a particularly big mystery really anymore. I mean, there are still mysteries about why then, and I've just said sulfate being washed into the oceans is one. It needs oxygen and oxygen levels rose around that time. So probably, Before that, they weren't high enough for animals. What we're seeing with the Cambrian explosion is the beginning of predators and prey relationships. We're seeing modern ecosystems and we're seeing arms races and we're seeing the full creativity of evolution unleashed. So I talked about the boring billion, nothing happens for one and a half billion years.