And he's done some work with planarian worms, so flatworms, where he'll tell you all about this, so I won't say any more than the minimum, but basically you can cut their head off and they'll redevelop a different, a new head. But the head that they develop depends, if you knock out just one iron pump in a membrane, so you change the electrical circuitry just a little bit, you can come up with a completely different head. It can be a head which is similar to those that diverged 150 million years ago, or it can be a head which no one's ever seen before, or a different kind of head. Now that is really, you might say, a hopeful monster. This is a kind of leap into a different direction. The only question for natural selection is does it work? Is the change itself feasible as a single change? And the answer is yes, it's just a small change to a single gene. And the second thing is it gives rise to a completely different morphology. Does it work? And if it works, that can easily be a shift. But for it to be a speciation, for it to continue, for it to give rise to a different morphology over time, then it has to be perpetuated. So that shift, that change in that one gene has to work well enough that it is selected and it goes on. And copied enough times to where you can really test it. So the likelihood, it would be lost, but there'll be some occasions where it survives. And yes, the idea that we can have sudden, fairly abrupt changes in evolution, I think it's time for a rebirth. What about this idea that, kind of trying to mathematize a definition of life and saying how many steps, the shortest amount of steps it takes to build the thing? Almost like an engineering view of it. And how do you find that? I like that view. Because I think that in a sense, that's not very far away from what a hypothesis needs to do to be a testable hypothesis for the origin of life. You need to spell out, here's each step, and here's the experiment to do for each step. The idea that we can do it in the lab, some people say, oh, well, we'll have created life within five years, but ask them what they mean by life. We have a planet four billion years ago with these vent systems across the entire surface of the planet. And we have millions of years if we wanted. I have a feeling that we're not talking about millions of years. I have a feeling we're talking about maybe millions of nanoseconds or picoseconds. We're talking about chemistry, which is happening quickly. But we still need to constrain those steps. But we've got a planet doing similar chemistry. You asked about a trajectory. The trajectory is the planetary trajectory. The planet has properties. It's basically, it's got a lot of iron at the center of it. It's got a lot of electrons at the center of it. It's more oxidized on the outside, partly because of the sun and partly because the heat of volcanoes puts out oxidized gases. So the planet is a battery, it's a giant battery. And we have a flow of electrons going from inside to outside in these hydrothermal vents. And that's the same topology that a cell has. A cell is basically just a micro version of the planet. And there is a trajectory in all of that. And there's an inevitability that certain types of chemical reaction are going to be favored over others. And there's an inevitability in what happens in water, the chemistry that happens in water. Some will be immiscible with water and will form membranes and will form insoluble structures. And nobody really understands water very well. And it's another. big question for experiments on the origin of life, what do you put it in? What kind of structure do we want to induce in this water? Because the last thing is likely to be is just kind of bulk water. How fundamental is water to life, would you say? I would say pretty fundamental. I wouldn't like to say it's impossible for life to start any other way, but water is everywhere. Water's extremely good at what it does. Carbon works in water especially well. So those things, and carbon is everywhere. So those things together make me think probabilistically, if we found 1,000 life forms, 995 of them would be carbon-based and living in water. Now the reverse question, if you found a puddle of water elsewhere and some carbon, no, just a puddle of water, is a puddle of water a pretty damn good indication that life either exists here or has once existed here? No. So it doesn't work the other way. I think you need a living planet. You need a planet which is capable of turning over its surface. It needs to be a planet with water. It needs to be capable of bringing those electrons from inside to the outside. It needs to turn over its surface. It needs to make that water work and turn it into hydrogen. So I think you need a living planet. But once you've got the living planet, I think the rest of it is kind of thermodynamics all the way. So if you were to run Earth over a million times up to this point, maybe beyond, to the end, let's run it to the end, what is it, how much variety is there? You kind of spoke to this trajectory that the environment dictates chemically, I don't know in which other way, spiritually, I don't know, dictates kind of the direction of this giant machine that seems chaotic, but it does seem to have order in the steps it's taking. How often will life, how often will bacteria emerge? How often will something like humans emerge? How much variety do you think there would be? I think at the level of bacteria, not much variety. I think we would get, how many times did you say you wanna run it, a million times? I would say at least a few hundred thousand will get bacteria again. Oh, wow, nice. Because I think there's some level of inevitability that a wet, rocky planet will give rise through the same processes to something very, I think, this is not something I'd have thought a few years ago, but working with a PhD student of mine, Stuart Harrison, he's been thinking about the genetic code and we've just been publishing on that. There are patterns that you can discern in the code, or he has discerned in the code, that if you think about them in terms of, we start with CO2 and hydrogen and these are the first steps of biochemistry, you come up with a code which is very similar to the code that we see. So it wouldn't surprise me any longer if we found life on Mars and it had a genetic code that was not very different to the genetic code that we have here, without it just being transferred across, there's some inevitability about the whole of the beginnings of life, in my view. That's really promising because if the basic chemistry is tightly linked to the genetic code, that means we can interact with other life if it exists out there. Well, that's potentially. That's really exciting, if that's the case. Okay, but then bacteria. We've got then, we've got bacteria. Yeah. How easy is photosynthesis? Much harder, I would say. Let's actually go there. Let's go through the inventions. Yeah. What is photosynthesis? And why is it hard? Well, there are different forms. I mean, basically, you're taking hydrogen and you're sticking it onto CO2 and it's powered by the sun. Question is, where are you taking the hydrogen from? And in photosynthesis that we know in plants, it's coming from water. So you're using the power of the sun to split water, take out the hydrogen, stick it onto CO2, and the oxygen is a waste product and you just throw it out, throw it away. So it's the single greatest planetary pollution event in the whole history of the Earth. The pollutant being oxygen. Yes, yeah. It also made possible animals. You can't have large active animals without an oxygenated atmosphere, at least not in the sense that we know on Earth. So that's a really big invention in the history of Earth. Huge invention, yes. And it happened once. There's a few things that happened once on Earth. And you're always stuck with this problem. Once it happened, did it become so good so quickly that it precluded the same thing happening ever again? Or are there other reasons? And we really have to look at each one in turn and think, why did it only happen once? In this case, it's really difficult to split water. It requires a lot of power. And that power, you're effectively separating charge across a membrane. And the way in which you do it, if it doesn't all rush back and kind of cause an explosion right at the site, requires really careful wiring. And that wiring, it can't be easy to get it right because the plants that we see around us, they have chloroplasts. Those chloroplasts were cyanobacteria once. Those cyanobacteria are the only group of bacteria that can do that type of photosynthesis. So there's plenty of opportunity. So not even many bacteria. So who invented photosynthesis? The cyanobacteria or their ancestors. And there's not many... No other bacteria can do what's called oxygenic photosynthesis. Lots of other bacteria can split. I mean, you can take your hydrogen from somewhere else. You can take it from hydrogen sulfide bubbling out of a hydrothermal vent. Grab your two. The sulfur is the waste now. You can do it from iron. You can take electrons. So the early oceans were probably full of iron. You can take an electron from ferrous iron. So iron two plus and make it iron three plus, which now precipitates as rust. And you take a proton from the acidic early ocean, stick it there. Now you've got a hydrogen atom. Stick it onto CO2. You've just done the trick. The trouble is you bury yourself in rusty iron. And with sulfur, you can bury yourself in sulfur. One of the reasons oxygenic photosynthesis is so much better is that the waste product is oxygen, which just bubbles away. That seems like extremely unlikely. And it's extremely essential for the evolution of complex organisms because of all the oxygen. Yeah, and that didn't accumulate quickly either. So it's converting, what is it? It's converting energy from the sun and the resource of water into the resource needed for animals. Both resources needed for animals. We need to eat and we need to burn the food. And we're eating plants, which are getting their energy from the sun, and we're burning it with their waste product, which is the oxygen. So there's a lot of kind of circularity in that. But without an oxygenated planet, you couldn't really have predation. You can have animals, but you can't really have animals that go around and eat each other. You can't have ecosystems as we know them. Well, let's actually step back. What about eukaryotic versus prokaryotic cells, prokaryotes? What are each of those and how big of an invention is that? I personally think that's the single biggest invention in the whole history of life. Exciting. So what are they? Can you explain? Yeah, so I mentioned bacteria and archaea. These are both prokaryotes. They're basically small cells that don't have a nucleus. If you look at them under a microscope, you don't see much going on. If you look at them under a super resolution microscope, then they're fantastically complex. In terms of their molecular machinery, they're amazing. In terms of their morphological appearance under a microscope, they're really small and really simple. The earliest life that we can physically see on the planet are stromatolites, which are made by things like cyanobacteria, and they're large superstructures. Effectively biofilms plated on top of each other, and you end up with quite large structures that you can see in the fossil record. But they never came up with animals. They never came up with plants. They came up with multicellular things, filamentous cyanobacteria, for example. They're just long strings of cells. But the origin of the eukaryotic cell seems to have been what's called an endosymbiosis. So one cell gets inside another cell. And I think that that's transformed the energetic possibilities of life. So what we end up with is a kind of supercharged cell, which can have a much larger nucleus with many more genes, all supported. If you think about it, you could think about it as multi-bacterial power without the overhead. So you've got a cell and it's got bacteria living in it, and those bacteria are providing it with the energy currency it needs. But each bacterium has a genome of its own, which costs a fair amount of energy to express, to kind of turn over and convert into proteins and so on. What the mitochondria did, which are these power packs in our own cells, they were bacteria once, and they threw away virtually all their genes. They've only got a few left.