So mitochondria is, like you said, is the bacteria that got inside a cell and then threw away all this stuff that doesn't need to survive inside the cell, and then kept what? So what we end up with, so it kept always a handful of genes, in our own case, 37 genes. But there's a few protists, which are single-celled things that have got as many as 70 or 80 genes. So it's not always the same, but it's always a small number. And you can think of it as a pared-down power pack where the control unit has been kind of pared down to almost nothing. So it's putting out the same power, but the investment in the overheads is really pared down. That means that you can support a much larger nuclear genome. So we've gone up in the number of genes, but also the amount of power you have to convert those genes into proteins. We've gone up about fourfold in the number of genes, but in terms of the size of genomes and your ability to make the building blocks, make the proteins, we've gone up 100,000-fold or more. So it's huge step change in the possibilities of evolution. And it's interesting then that the only two occasions that complex life has arisen on Earth, plants and animals, fungi you could say are complex as well, but they don't form such complex morphology as plants and animals. Start with a single cell. They start with an oocyte and a sperm fused together to make a zygote. So you start development with a single cell and all the cells in the organism have identical DNA. And you switch off in the brain, you switch off these genes and you switch on those genes and liver you switch off those and you switch on a different set. And the standard evolutionary explanation for that is that you're restricting conflict. You don't have a load of genetically different cells that are all fighting each other. And so it works. The trouble with bacteria is they form these biofilms and they're all genetically different and effectively they're incapable of that level of cooperation. They would get in a fight. Okay, so why is this such a difficult invention of getting this bacteria inside and becoming an engine, which the mitochondria is? Why was that? Why do you assign it such great importance? Is it great importance in terms of the difficulty of how it was to achieve or great importance in terms of the impact it had on life? Both. It had a huge impact on life because if that had not happened, you can be certain that life on earth would be bacterial only. And that took a really long time. It took two billion years. And it hasn't happened since to the best of our knowledge. So it looks as if it's genuinely difficult. And if you think about it then from just an informational perspective, you think bacteria have got, they structure their information differently. So a bacterial cell has a small genome. It might have 4,000 genes in it, but a single E. coli cell has access to about 30,000 genes, potentially. It's got a kind of metagenome where other E. coli out there have got different gene sets and they can switch them around between themselves. And so you can generate a huge amount of variation. And they've got more, an E. coli metagenome is larger than the human genome. We own 20,000 genes or something. So, and they've had four billion years of evolution to work out what can I do and what can't I do with this metagenome? And the answer is you're stuck. You're still bacteria. So they have explored genetic sequence space far more thoroughly than eukaryotes ever did because they've had twice as long at least and they've got much larger populations. And they never got around this problem. So why can't they? It seems as if you can't solve it with information alone. So what's the problem? The problem is structure. If cells, if the very first cells needed an electrical charge on their membrane to grow, and in bacteria, it's the outer membrane that surrounds the cell, which is electrically charged. You try and scale that up and you've got a fundamental design problem. You've got an engineering problem. And there are examples of it. And what we see in all these cases is what's known as extreme polyploidy, which is to say they have tens of thousands of copies of their complete genome, which is energetically, hugely expensive. And you end up with a large bacteria with no further development. What you need is to incorporate these electrically charged power pack units inside with their control units intact and for them not to conflict so much with the host cell that it all goes wrong. Perhaps it goes wrong more often than not. And then you change the topology of the cell. Now you don't necessarily have any more DNA than a giant bacterium with extreme polyploidy. But what you've got is an asymmetry. You now have a giant nuclear genome surrounded by lots of subsidiary energetic genomes that do all the, they're the control units that are doing all the control of energy generation. Could this have been done gradually or does it have to be done, that the power pack has to be all intact and ready to go and work? I mean, it's a kind of step change in the possibilities of evolution, but it doesn't happen overnight. It's gonna still require multiple, multiple generations. So it could take, you know, it could take millions of years. It could take shorter time. This is another thing I would like to put the number of steps and try and work out what's required at each step. And we are trying to do that with sex, for example. You can't have a very large genome. unless you have sex at that point. So what are the changes to go from bacterial recombination to eukaryotic recombination, what do you need to do? Why do we go from passing around bits of DNA as if it's loose change to fusing cells together, lining up the chromosomes, recombining across the chromosomes, and then going through two rounds of cell division to produce your gametes? All eukaryotes do it that way. So again, why switch? What are the drivers here? So there's a lot of time, there's a lot of evolution, but as soon as you've got cells living inside another cell, what you've got is a new design. You've got new potential that you didn't have before. So the cell living inside another cell, that design allows for better storage of information, better use of energy, more delegation, like a hierarchical control of the whole thing. And then somehow that leads to ability to have multicell organisms. I'm not sure that you have hierarchical control necessarily, but you've got a system where you can have a much larger information storage depot in the nucleus. You can have a much larger genome. And that allows multicellularity, yes, because it allows you... It's a funny thing, to have an animal where I have 70% of my genes switched on in my brain and a different 50% switched on in my liver or something. You've got to have all those genes in the egg cell at the very beginning. And you've got to have a program of development which says, okay, you guys switch off those genes and switch on those genes and you guys, you do that. But all the genes are there at the beginning. That means you've got to have a lot of genes in one cell and you've got to be able to maintain them. And the problem with bacteria is they don't get close to having enough genes in one cell. So if you were to try and make a multicellular organism from bacteria, you'd bring different types of bacteria together and hope they'll cooperate. And the reality is they don't. That's really, really tough to do. Yeah. We know they don't because it doesn't exist. We have the data, as far as we know. I'm sure there's a few special ones and they die off quickly. I'd love to know some of the most fun things bacteria have done since. Oh, there's a few. I mean, they can do some pretty funky things. And this is broad brushstroke that I'm talking about. Yes, generally speaking. So how was, so another fun invention. Us humans seem to utilize it well, but you say it's also very important early on is sex. So what is sex? Just asking for a friend. And when was it invented and how hard was it to invent, just as you were saying, and why was it invented? Why, how hard was it, and when? I have a PhD student who's been working on this and we've just published a couple of papers on sex. Yes, yes, yes. What do you publish? Does biology, is it biology, genetics, journals? This is actually PNAS, which is Proceedings of the National Academy. Broad, big, big picture stuff. Everyone's interested in sex. And the job of biologist is to make sex dull. Yeah, that's a beautiful way to put it. Okay, so when was it invented? It was invented with eukaryotes about two billion years ago. All eukaryotes share the same basic mechanism that you produce gametes. The gametes fuse together. So a gamete is the egg cell and the sperm. They're not necessarily even different in size or shape. So the simplest eukaryotes produce what are called motile gametes. They're all like sperm and they all swim around. They find each other, they fuse together. They don't have kind of much going on there beyond that. And then these are haploid, which is to say we all have two copies of our genome and the gametes have only a single copy of the genome. So when they fuse together, you now become diploid again, which is to say you now have two copies of your genome. And what you do is you line them all up and then you double everything. So now we have four copies of the complete genome. And then we crisscross between all of these things. So we take a bit from here and stick it on there and a bit from here and we stick it on here. That's recombination. And then we go through two rounds of cell division. So we divide in half. So now the two daughter cells have two copies and we divide in half again. Now we have some gametes, each of which has got a single copy of the genome. And that's the basic ground plan for what's called meiosis and syngamy. That's basically sex. And it happens at the level of single-celled organisms. And it happens pretty much the same way in plants and pretty much the same way in animals and so on. And it's not found in any bacteria. They switch things around using the same machinery and they take up a bit of DNA from the environment. They take out this bit and stick in that bit and it's the same molecular machinery they're using to do it. So what about the kind of, you said, find each other, this kind of imperative to find each other? What is that? Like, is that? Well, you've got a few cells together. So the bottom line on all of this is bacteria, I mean, it's kind of simple when you've figured it out. And figuring it out, this is not me, this is my PhD student, Marco Colnaghi. And in effect, if you're doing lateral, you're an E. coli cell. You've got 4,000 genes. You wanna scale up to a eukaryotic size. I wanna have 20,000 genes. And I need to maintain my genome so it doesn't get shot to pieces by mutations. And I'm gonna do it by lateral gene transfer. So I know I've got a mutation in a gene. I don't know which gene it is, because I'm not sentient. But I know I can't grow. I know my regulation systems are saying, something wrong here, something wrong. Pick up some DNA. Pick up a bit of DNA from the environment. If you've got a small genome, the chances of you picking up the right bit of DNA from the environment is much higher than if you've got a genome of 20,000 genes. To do that, you've effectively gotta be picking up DNA all the time, all day long and nothing else. And you're still gonna get the wrong DNA. You've gotta pick up large chunks. And in the end, you've gotta align them. You're forced into sex, to coin a phrase. So you're- So there is a kind of incentive. If you wanna have a large genome, you've gotta prevent it mutating to nothing. That will happen with bacteria. So there's another reason why bacteria can't have a large genome. But as soon as you give them the power pack, as soon as you give eukaryotic cells the power pack that allows them to increase the size of their genome, then you face the pressure that you've gotta maintain its quality. You've gotta stop it just mutating away. What about sexual selection? So the finding, like, uh, I don't like this one, I don't like this one, this one seems all right. Like, what's the, is it, at which point does it become less random? It's hard to know.