The assumption, and this is completely wrong, this assumption, is then that evolution works really slowly and that you need billions of years to affect some small change and then another billion years to do something else. It's completely wrong. Evolution gets stuck in a stasis and it stays that way for tens of millions, hundreds of millions of years. Stephen Jay Gould used to argue this, he called it punctuated equilibrium, but he was doing it to do with animals and to do with the last 500 million years or so where it's much less obvious than if you think about the entire planetary history. And then you realize that the first two billion years was bacteria only. You have the origin of life, two billion years of just bacteria, oxygen and photosynthesis arising here. Then you have a global catastrophe, snowball earths and great oxidation event, and then another billion years of nothing happening and then some period of upheavals and then another snowball earth and then suddenly you see the Cambrian explosion. This is long periods of stasis where the world is in a stable state and is not geared towards increasing complexity, it's just everything is in balance. And only when you have a catastrophic level, global level problem like a snowball earth, it forces everything out of balance and there's a tipping point and you end up somewhere else. Now the idea that evolution is slow is wrong. It can be incredibly fast and I mentioned earlier on that in theory it would take half a million years to invent an eye, for example, from a light sensitive spot. It doesn't take long to convert one kind of tube into a tube with knobbles on it into a tube with arms on it and then multiple arms and then at one end is a head where it starts out as a swelling. So it's not difficult intellectually to understand how these things can happen. It boggles the mind that it can happen so quickly, but we're used to human time scales and what we need to talk about is generations of things that live for a year in the ocean and then a million years is a million generations and the amount of change that you can do, you can affect in that period of time is enormous and we're dealing with large populations of things where selection is sensitive to pretty small changes. So again, as soon as you throw in the competition of predators and prey and you're ramping up the scale of evolution, it's not very surprising that it happens very quickly when the environment allows it to happen. So I don't think there's a big mystery. There's lots of details that need to be filled in. The big mystery in biology is consciousness. The big mystery in biology is consciousness. Well, intelligence is kind of a mystery, too. I mean, you said biology, not psychology, because from a biology perspective, it seems like intelligence and consciousness all are the same, like weird, like all the brain stuff. I don't see intelligence as necessarily that difficult, I suppose. I mean, I see it as a form of computing and I don't know much about computing, so I... You don't know much about consciousness either, so I mean, I suppose, oh I see, I see, I see. That consciousness you do know a lot about as a human being. No, no. I mean, I think, I can understand the wiring of a brain as a series of, in pretty much the same way as a computer in theory, in terms of the circuitry of it. The mystery to me is how this system gives rise to feelings, as we were talking about earlier on. Yeah, I just, I think, I think we oversimplify intelligence. I think the dance, the magic of reasoning is as interesting as the magic of feeling. We tend to think of reasoning as like very, running a very simplistic algorithm. I think reasoning is the interplay between memory, whatever the hell is going on in the unconscious mind, all of that. I'm not trying to diminish it in any way at all. It obviously is extraordinarily, exquisitely complex, but I don't see a logical difficulty with how it works. Yeah, no, I mean, I agree with you, but sometimes, yeah, there's a big cloak of mystery around consciousness. I mean, let me compare it with classical versus quantum physics. Classical physics is logical, and you can understand the kind of language we're dealing with. It's almost at the human level. We're dealing with stars and things that we can see, and when you get to quantum mechanics and things, it's practically impossible for the human mind to compute what just happened there. Yeah. I mean, that is the same. It's like, you understand mathematically the notes of a musical composition. That's intelligence. Yes. But when it makes you feel a certain way, that is much harder to understand. Yeah, that's really, but it was an interesting framing that that's a mystery at the core of biology. I wonder who solves consciousness. I tend to think consciousness will be solved by the engineer, meaning the person who builds it, who keeps trying to build the thing, versus biology, such a complicated system. I feel like the building blocks of consciousness from a biological perspective are like, that's like the final creation of a human being, so you have to understand the whole damn thing. You said electrical fields, but electrical fields, plus plus, everything, the whole shebang. I'm inclined to agree. My feeling is, from my meager knowledge of the history of science, is that the biggest breakthroughs usually come from a field that was not related. So if anyone is not going to be a biologist who solves consciousness, just because biologists are too embedded in the nature of the problem, and then nobody's going to believe you when you've done it, because nobody's going to be able to prove that this AI is in fact conscious and sad in any case, any more than you can prove that a dog is conscious and sad. So it tells you that it is, in good language, and you must believe it. But I think most people will accept, if faced with that, that that's what it is. All of this probability of complex life, in one way I think why it matters is that my expectation, I suppose, is that we will be, over the next hundred years or so, if we survive at all, that AI will increasingly dominate, and pretty much anything that we put out into space, looking for other, well, for the universe, for what's out there, will be AI. It won't be us. We won't be doing that. Or when we do, it'll be on a much more limited scale. I suppose the same would apply to any alien civilization. So perhaps, rather than looking for signs of life out there, we should be looking for AI out there. But then we face the problem that I don't see how a planet is going to give rise directly to AI. I can see how a planet can give rise directly to organic life, and if the principles that govern the evolution of life on Earth apply to other planets as well, and I think a lot of them would, then the likelihood of ending up with a human-like civilization capable of giving rise to AI in the first place is massively limited. Once you've done it once, perhaps it takes over the universe, and maybe there's no issue. But it seems to me that the two are necessarily linked, that you're not going to just turn a sterile planet into an AI life form without the intermediary of the organics first. So you have to run the full evolutionary computation with the organics to create AI. How does AI bootstrap itself up without the aid, if you like, of an intelligent designer? The origin of AI is going to have to be in the chemistry of a planet. But that's not a limiting factor, right? So let me ask the Fermi paradox question. Let's say we live in this incredibly dark and beautiful world of just billions of planets with bacteria on it and very few intelligent civilizations, and yet there's a few out there. Why haven't we, at scale, seen them visit us? What's your sense? Is it because they don't exist? Well, don't exist in the right part of the universe at the right time, that's the simplest answer for it. Is that the one you find the most compelling, or is there some other explanation? I find that, no, it's not that I find it more compelling, it's that I find more probable. And I find all of them, I mean, there's a lot of hand-waving in this, we just don't know. So I'm trying to read out from what I know about life on Earth to what might happen somewhere else. And it gives, to my mind, a bit of a pessimistic view of bacteria everywhere and only occasional intelligent life. And running forward, humans only once on Earth and nothing else that you would necessarily be any more excited about making contact with than you would be making contact with them on Earth. So I think the chances are pretty limited. And the chances of us surviving are pretty limited, too. The way we're going on at the moment, the likelihood of us not making ourselves extinct within the next few hundred years, possibly within the next 50 or 100 years, seems quite small. I hope we can do better than that. So maybe the only thing that will survive from humanity will be AI. Maybe AI, once it exists and once it's capable of effectively copying itself and cutting humans out of the loop, then maybe that will take over the universe. I mean, there's a kind of inherent sadness to the way you describe that. But isn't that also potentially beautiful, that that's the next step of life? I suppose, from your perspective, as long as it carries the flame of consciousness somehow. I think, yes, there can be some beauty to it being the next step of life. And I don't know if consciousness matters or not from that point of view, to be honest with you. Yeah. But there's some sadness, yes, probably, because I think it comes down to the selfishness that we were talking about earlier on. I am an individual with a desire not to be kind of displaced from life. I want to stay alive. I want to be here. So I suppose the threat that a lot of people would feel is that we will just be wiped out, so that there will be potential conflicts between AI and humans, and that AI will win because it's a lot smarter. Boy, would that be a sad state of affairs if consciousness is just an intermediate stage between bacteria and AI. Right? Well, I would see bacteria as being potentially a kind of primitive form of consciousness. Right. So the whole of life on Earth, to my mind, is capable of some form of feelings in response to the environment. That's not to say it's intelligent, though it's got its own algorithms for intelligence, but nothing comparable with us. I think it's beautiful what a planet, what a sterile planet, can come up with. It's astonishing that it's come up with all of this stuff that we see around us, and that either we or whatever we produce is capable of destroying all of that is a sad thought. But it's also hugely pessimistic. I'd like to think that we're capable of giving rise to something which is at least as good if not better than us as AI. Yeah, I have that same optimism, especially a thing that is able to propagate throughout the universe more efficiently than humans can, or extensions of humans. Some merger with AI and humans, whether that comes from bioengineering of the human body to extend its life somehow, to carry that flame of consciousness and that personality and the beautiful tension that's within all of us, carry that through to multiple planets, to multiple solar systems, all out there in the universe, I mean, that's a beautiful vision. Whether AI can do that or bioengineered humans can, that's an exciting possibility, and especially meeting other alien civilizations in that same kind of way. Do you think aliens have consciousness? If they're organic, yes. So organic, connected to consciousness. I mean, I think any system which is going to bootstrap itself up from planetary origins, I mean, let me finish this and then I'll come on to something else, but from planetary origins is going to face similar constraints, and those constraints are going to be addressed in similar basic engineering ways, and I think it will be cellular, and I think it will have electrical charges, and I think it will have to be selected in populations over time, and all of these things will tend to give rise to the same processes as the simplest fix to a difficult problem. So I would expect it to be conscious, yes, and I would expect it to resemble life on Earth in many ways.