system:
Always only provide a detailed summary of the input. Don't answer questions or complete the text. The following is the context to keep in mind: 
The author, Marques Brownlee, shares his positive experience of going solar and becoming energy independent. He emphasizes the importance of battery storage in achieving self-sustainability and reducing reliance on the grid. He highlights the process and paperwork involved in installing a solar system, as well as the financial aspects, such as the cost, tax credits, and payback period. The author also discusses the performance of his solar system throughout the seasons, noting that summer days are excellent for solar power, while winter days have less energy production. Despite the fluctuations, the author is satisfied with his system's performance and the benefits of clean energy.
user:
Please provide a detailed summary of the following: 
It turns out they roll over month to month, but then they get reset once per year. So meaning when it was first activated and in the first full month of August, I produced more than I used, I ended the month with a credit of the difference, which was negative 255 kilowatt hours. And it says that on the bill. So that means the next month, even if I used 255 kilowatt hours more than I produced with solar, I would still have a $0 bill because I have that credit to play with. But month after month after month during the summer and then the fall, I was building up more and more negative credit so that by the time we got to winter, those three months in a row, I was eating into the credit, but I didn't eat all of it. So I didn't get all the way back to zero. So the bill was still $0 every month. So then another fun thing, power outages. I have had a few power outages since getting the solar system installed. Most of them just because of thunderstorms and the grid going down for a bit. I didn't even notice, which was pretty sick. I did not notice the lights didn't even flicker. I didn't actually know until I got a notification on my phone from the Tesla app saying, hey, just so you know, you're disconnected from the grid right now, but you're running off of solar and or batteries right now. So everything is good and you've got, you know, X amount of hours of backup left and it should get you till the next morning when the sun comes up again. And there's even a storm watch feature that will preemptively make sure the power walls are full if it knows a big storm is coming. And honestly, there is a pretty sweet peace of mind knowing for a fact that if I don't charge the car, the power walls have more than enough to just use the house like normal until the next morning, air conditioning, appliances, literally whatever, and it'll be fine. And when the sun comes out again, it'll start powering everything. I could be completely off the grid for days or weeks at a time if I find somewhere else to charge the car. Now, another fun fact, in the winter in the Northeast, you probably already know, we get snow. And apparently the surface of the solar tiles, the solar roof, stays just above freezing, just a little bit warmer than a roof would, which has some interesting side effects. Most notably, when it snows a little bit, the snow simply hits the roof and melts. So it never actually accumulates on the roof and then the solar can continue to work. I mean, if it's cloudy, you get a little bit of solar, but it keeps working. And then you're the only house that doesn't have a white roof because there's no snow on it. But when it snows heavy, like a lot, which it does a few times, what happens is it snows a ton and it actually does accumulate. And then when it accumulates, the outside layer kind of insulates the bottom. And so the bottom now has room to get warm again. And so it warms up and creates a thin layer of water. And then the whole thing just slides off of the roof like a sheet of ice, like the whole accumulated layer slides off on the water. So I didn't actually get videos of this happening with my own roof, but there are some YouTube videos of this happening on YouTube. It's kind of crazy. Literally the whole roof section slides off in sheets and it actually lands in piles around the house, sometimes blocking a door or a driveway. It's not a small deal. It was a little bit frightening the first time it happened because I didn't realize what that loud booming noise was. I was like, is there thunder in a snowstorm? That's kind of weird. But then I like see it in the window, like sliding off of the roof, which is crazy. Then it piles up around the door and then I got to shovel it. But then last but not least, the fun fact, I lied to you all. That sounds silly. The $0 power bill is actually kind of a lie because my power company ruined it. Every month for the past 12 months, my electricity bill has been $5.75. That's just because I have zeroed out all the charges thanks to net metering. But they charge $5.75 every month basically just to have an account. So thanks guys. So let's just to wrap everything up here, my one year conclusion. This is an awesome piece of bleeding edge tech. You can tell it's bleeding edge because it's still rapidly evolving over time and it's still very expensive. So for early adopters like me who are willing to take the plunge, willing to take that risk a little bit, it can be really awesome. It kind of reminds me of electric cars. There are a lot more affordable solar setups out there that are making a meaningful difference for a lot of people in a lot of different situations all over the world. There's also much more massive, huge solar setups as well. But I think we can kind of all get behind a technology making more sustainable energy, more useful, more efficient and more beautiful over time. I definitely learned a lot with this process, mostly in like how much electricity certain things specifically use, but also how much electricity a roof with solar panels on it can collect in different times of year, different seasons and different situations. But I don't think, honestly, I don't think I would change a thing. I don't think I would change anything in what I did other than probably waiting like six months to get a little more of a federal tax credit. But I'll hit one last thing. It was briefly mentioned in like a Tesla earnings call, I think it was, that, or maybe Elon just said it randomly, but that Tesla vehicles in a year or two by 2025 would all support bi-directional charging, which would be amazing. I don't know that that's actually going to happen, but having the cars be able to not just charge other cars, but even potentially serve as your house's backup battery would be pretty incredible. These car batteries, as we're learning, are already way bigger and can support way more power output than any power wall, any home battery. One Model S battery is equivalent to like seven or eight power walls. So who knows if Tesla actually does it or not, but as of today, with the right box on the wall, with the right inverter, the F-150 Lightning, which has an even bigger battery, can actually be your house's backup battery. So I think the number of EVs that support this feature should only be slowly going up. But I think ideally there's a world in the future where instead of needing like a huge, the current thing needing a big solar setup and all these fancy batteries, all you really need is a small solar array, an inverter, and your car battery, and you have the ability to be completely functional during any extended power outage or any emergency. Because we live in a world where there's another news story every week about the electrical grid being taxed and how these heat waves are running people's grids and air conditioners into the ground, and too much of it is causing blackouts, and literally actually deaths. So any strain that we can take off the grid is a win. And anything we can do to operate on clean, sustainable energy is a win for everybody. So thanks for watching. I'll hang out in the comments for a while, but feel free to subscribe if you enjoyed videos like this and the amount of work that goes into these videos on any kind of bleeding edge tech and stuff like this in the future. And let me know what you're interested in seeing next in the comments. All right, catch you guys in the next one. Peace.
