Amazon is building a processing facility for Project Kuiper satellites at Kennedy Space Centre in Florida, which will take around 83 launches. Cape Canaveral was also the site of SpaceX's 50th launch of the year with a Falcon 9 launching more Starlink satellites into a higher Earth orbit than before. The rocket then landed on the company's drone ship. 

Amazon's Project Kuiper is a satellite manufacturing initiative that aims to construct the largest satellite production factory in the world. It has garnered attention for its ambitious goals, but production is not set to start until the end of 2021.

SpaceX's test of the water deluge system was successful, boding well for the upcoming static fire and launch. SpaceX also tested the ship quick disconnect interface, part of an upgrade in preparation for the next Starship flight test. Booster 9 was left fully-filled for over two hours, and engineers suspect it was to gather data for comparison. 

Over the last three months there have been four Falcon Heavy launches. Falcon 9 has launched a record 5,993 kg payload to geostationary transfer orbit, the largest ever payload to be launched to that orbit. SpaceX has announced that it will be launching the Kuiper system on the Falcon Heavy, the world's most powerful operational rocket.

The Hubble Space Telescope has captured images of a boulder swarm surrounding the asteroid Dimorphos, believed to be debris not ejected from the impact crater of NASA‘s Dart Mission but from the loosened rubble from the asteroid’s surface due to seismic shockwaves. This has given scientists first-hand data supporting the theory of rubble pile asteroids. The imagery shows the solar system's faintest objects and shows Hubble's capabilities in observing faint and distant objects. 

On the Space Tesla subject, SpaceX has a new refined Neutron design. The mega constellation launcher rocket has been redesigned to resemble the Falcon 9, with deployable landing gear. SpaceX has also evolved the Neutron fairing design to a two-petal style.