 Hey, Junker Peeps! As you know, I'm American and I just got my Anglophone family reunion invite, so I guess I have to show up to be polite and all. What? Hi, Dad. It's time to learn geography. Hey everyone, I'm your host, Barb. Get your geography now merch like this geography now t-shirt at geographynow.com. Not selling out if it's your brand. Well, here I am in the big crumpet, the big uck, the land of kings, queens, and in-betweens. At one point, a quarter of the world's population and land area was under their rule. Of course, such a story came with lots of complicated chapters, and when it comes to complication, usually it's best to have a person from the country come along and help out. And for this episode, I could not think of anyone better to speak on behalf of the UK than my go-to Brit. Many of you already know him. Come on in, ladies and gentlemen, say hello to Mr. J. Forman. Hi, hello, hello. Thank you so much. I've always wanted to be on geography now. We...tell him how we met. I think I started watching geography now back in the Belgium days. You accidentally stole a map from an episode of Mapman, and now we're the best of YouTube. Yeah! Yeah, I stole your map. I've probably stolen more from elsewhere. By the way, Jay, a lot has probably happened over the years. What have you been up to? Uh, this. Oh, yeah, you made something. Yeah, I made one of these. Oh, okay. He's really good. Yeah, so let's talk about your country now, Shellstiddith. Wee. That is how we took. So, the UK today is very different from what it used to be. And no, we're not referencing how the island used to be connected to the rest of continental Europe via Doggerland. And no, we're not referencing the Mesolithic, Erinsburgian, hunter-gatherers. All the Neolithic agriculturalists and enormous stone transporting and solstice measuring peoples. No, we're referencing a time later on when the entire island was just a mess of clans, chieftains opposing monarchs and outside monarchs trying to come in and out monarch the said monarchs. It wasn't until much later that the country actually completed unifying everything on the island of Great Britain, plus Northern Ireland, don't forget Northern Ireland, and all the overseas territories, don't forget the overseas territories and Crown Dependency. You could probably forget the Crown Dependency. Yeah, because there's like a whole other thing going on. Oh, yeah, and you guys have a town called Tee-ee-oh. There's a place near here called Trotters' Bottom. I went to B**tfield. Oh, and of course you can't forget, Very good, very good, very good, excellent. Cheers. Actually speaking of places in Britain, did you know that we've got some of the weirdest and hardest to pronounce places in the world? Okay. Le Cester, Fromi, Ruislip, Chiswick, Landfall. Slanesli. Slanesli. Slanesli. Oh, yeah, that's Welsh, isn't it? It is Welsh. Oh, those Welshes, you can't trust them. Well, in any case, let's look at them up, shall we? First of all, the main chunk of what makes up the UK is Great Britain, located off the northwestern coast of the continental mainland of Europe, north of France, separated by the English Channel, and east of Ireland, separated by the Irish Sea to the east, as well as the North Sea and to the north, the North Atlantic. The island of Great Britain is made up of three constituent countries, England, which holds about 84% of the country's population, Scotland, which holds about 8%, and Wales at about 1.5%. From there, they also administer Northern Ireland, which doesn't exactly have an official political title. Some say it's a constituent country, some say it's a region or province, but to this day, it lies across the Irish Sea on the northern section of the island of Ireland, making it their largest land border with any country. Outside of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, though, the UK has three crown dependencies and 14 overseas territories, 12 of which are small islands in the Caribbean, Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans, and two of them, Gibraltar, and the sovereign bases of Acreteria and Tekelia, are small areas attached to the larger shared land masses of Spain and Cyprus. Keep in mind the crown dependencies of the Isle of Man, Guernsey, and Jersey are technically not considered part of the UK, but are still subject to the UK's defense and international representation. And finally, the British Antarctic Territory and its main base at Rothera is a section of Antarctica that does not have any actual sovereign status, as all countries are subject to the Antarctic Treaty, which states no one can colonize the continent. The entire domain that falls under the UK's sovereignty spans across nine time zones. Anyway, back to the main island. This is where things take a twist. First off, keep in mind each of the constituent countries of Scotland and Wales, as well as whatever you want to label Northern Ireland, has their own Parliament system with a head called a First Minister. Whereas England does not have its own separate Parliament, as they just use the same country capitals Westminster Palace building, as the meeting place for all English elected constituent officials, since it's pretty much always been the spot used for them anyway, and they see no need to complicate things further. On paper, England has 48 counties, Scotland has 32 council areas, Wales has 22 principal areas, and Northern Ireland has 6 counties. However, keep in mind that many of these are disputed, people don't pay attention to them, and many might just refer to their traditional areas, which is another topic. In any case, the capital and largest city, and largest city in Western Europe, is London. After that, it's Manchester at number 2 and Birmingham at number 3. Also, keep in mind the City of London, or the City of London Corporation, has its own separate government, which is independent from the rest of the country. This means that the Lord Mayor of London is technically the highest ranking official in the UK after the monarch, even though the City of London in itself is just one small part of Greater London. London alone has 4 of the top 10 busiest airports in the country, Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, and Luton, whereas outside of the London area, Manchester International comes in at number 3, and Edinburgh International at number 6. Just on the east side of England lies the port of Felix Stowe, the largest and busiest shipping port of the country. The country has a very extensive road and rail network, and otherwise, London's Waterloo and Victoria are the largest train stations, and the completion of the Channel in 1994 officially connected the UK to the rest of mainland Europe via France. Except literally no one calls it the Channel ever. I call it the Channel. No you don't. It's the Channel Tunnel, or the EuroStar, or Le Châtel, or anything but Channel. No one says Channel. Calling it Channel. So as you can see, when it comes to the administrative divisions, the UK is quite possibly the biggest nightmare in the world. And keep in mind, we didn't even mention all the other confusing administrative levels, like combined authority areas, metropolitan counties, Lutonancy areas, or left-hentancy areas, depending how you want to pronounce it, parishes words. It's a long... Yeah. To help a little bit more on understanding on how all these things actively work, we could mention the 650 constituency system in which 650 small concessions of the country get represented in the parliament with a representative. It's so complicated. The way we do things in this country is, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. And if it is massively broke, still don't fix it. Anyway, off of that note, the UK has a bicameral legislature consisting of the House of Commons and the House of Lords. So the House of Commons is the one that you see on the telly, and the House of Lords is the big room next door where they wear robes, and it's weird. And the wigs too, right? Wigs sometimes, yeah. They're appointed. So there are four ways you can get into the House of Lords. One of them is by giving lots of money to the governing party, and then they sort of, as a favor, make you a lord. But that's not officially how it works, so don't... I... that's not what I said. The other way is if you're an expert in something like the law or the arts or beer. The other way is if you happen to be born with a dad who's already a hereditary peer. So it can be hereditary. It can be hereditary. And you're allowed to become a member of the House of Lords as long as you don't have any older brothers. Isn't it insane? Some British place names, just from looking at the name, you can tell which part of the country it's in. So for example, if it's got a Celtic name, which means it has words like Tret, Loch Bryn and Aber, that means you're likely to find it in Wales. Or if it's got a Viking suffix such as Thwaite, Thawk, Kirk or Bee, that means you're likely to find it in the north. And then there are the Anglo-Saxon place names such as Inge, Ham, Berry, Ford, Port, and so on and so on. So you can actually tell which group of people influenced which area based off of the suffix of the name of the place. Sort of. Although that was probably more true hundreds of years ago, and now these days all the names get mixed up and they come up with new place names all the time. God, gotta have that Trotter's bottom. So all of that brings us to the obvious topic. The UK is a constitutional monarchy. Technically, the king is in charge, and it's his country and it's his laws, but how this practically works is he's just a ceremonial figurehead, and it's actually the government and the prime minister that make all the actual decisions. But he could also step in if he wanted to. In theory, he could step in and say, I don't like this law, but he knows full well that if he tried that, there'd be an instant revolution with set bucking in Palestine. You got another Oliver Kammerall situation. Jay did a lot of videos on this type of stuff. We'll just put an annotation. Just check out his videos. Long story short, it wasn't always this way. In fact, the UK's history is more like the combined histories of the three constituent countries of Scotland, England, and Wales, plus a little bit of Northern Ireland, but that's a whole other thing. Yeah, that's the thing. Ulster. Yeah. Even though the UK is a country, like the bits that make it up are also called countries. Yeah, there's no simple way to condense this whole history. Let's try anyway. Ancient beaker culture. Counts arrived and split into the Britons, Gaels and Picts. Romans failed to conquer the Picts. They build Hadrian's Wall. Romans leave, income the Germanic tribes. Scotland splits into four kingdoms. Egbert becomes the first Saxon king. And then the Anglo-Saxon split into seven kingdoms. Anglo-Saxon, by the way, is where the name England comes from. Ah. Cornwall falls to Wessex, but keeps its language and culture. Meanwhile, Wales was made up of many kingdoms, but the largest are Gwynedd, Powis, and Difford. Vikings come in, raid much of the Hebrides, Ireland, and Isle of Man. Scots and Picts join to create the Kingdom of Alba. Danish Vikings come in and create the Dane Law. This is also how lots of Danish words crept their way back into modern English, such as Leg, Window, and yes, even Ransack, which was exactly what the Danes were doing. Anglo-Saxon, Ethelson fights against them and becomes the first king of England. Meanwhile, in the 11th century, Gryffith up Llewellyn becomes the only king that ruled over all of Wales, but then it is quickly killed by one of his own people. William of Normandy takes over England and thus begins the Norman dynasty. Angevin Empire view of the House of Plantagenets begins. Crusades! Oops, Richard Lionheart plays a huge role in this. King John is terrible and then his barons force him to sign the Magna Carta. 1284, Egbert I conquers Wales and integrates it into England, but they maintain their language and culture. Alexander III of Scotland dies and 14 rivals claim succession to the throne. 14th century, Charles IV of France dies with no heir, so Egbert III was eligible through his mum, but the French were like, Hell no! and elected Prince Philip of Valois, and hence began the 100 years war. Yes, this is when the John of Arc thing happened. Egbert III dies, many claims to the throne rise up, and thus begins the War of the Roses. 16th century, Tudor dynasty begins, and thus all that crazy Henry VIII stuff goes down. You know the history? Divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived. It's cute because it rhymes. Meanwhile, in 1585, the British take their first stab at colonizing what is now Virginia in the USA, which eventually evolved into the Thirteen Colonies. Meanwhile, the East India Company begins shortly after. Elizabeth I rule leads to the Mary Queen of Scots thing, and the Spanish Armada. 17th century, Elizabeth I dies, closest relative is James VI of Scotland, and he becomes ruler, hence joining Scotland and England for the first time, becoming the first monarch to rule over the entire island of Great Britain. Conspirators try to assassinate him and blow up Parliament, aka the Guy Fawkes thing. Charles I in Parliament have tensions, and thus begins the English Civil War. Our river crumb well becomes Lord Protector after dissolving the monarchy, but after he dies, the monarchy is restored with Charles II. Yeah, you guys really went back to that monarchy thing fast. Like... In the 17th century, Scotland unsuccessfully attempts colonies in Panama and Nova Scotia, and it has an economic crisis. 1707, the union between Scotland and England is finalized. Queen Anne dies, ending the House of Stuart, and in comes the House of Hanover. Wars, wars, and more expensive wards. Great Britain taxes colonies to try and make up for the debt. Colonies aren't happy, which leads to the War of Independence for America. The Industrial Revolution! Let's just pass over that whole chapter. Captain James Cook swings by Australia, New Zealand, and hey, let's establish some more penal colonies. Napoleonic Wars! East India Company is met with revolt and leads to a full takeover of India in 1858. Berlin Conference split up areas that European powers would administer in Africa. World War I, 1921, land grabs from the crumbling German and Ottoman empires resulted in the height of the territorial rule for the UK. 1922, Ireland breaks away. World War II, the whole Winston Churchill and the Battle of Blitz stuff happened. Afterwards, one by one, the former territories got their independence. The Commonwealth of Nations is established. Joins NATO. Paramilitary violence in Northern Ireland. Sorry about that. Joins the European Economic Community, which was like a predecessor to the EU. Monetarism policies are enacted under the Margaret Thatcher years. Falkland Islands War. 2008 Global Financial Crisis, followed by a Scottish referendum ending in remaining part of the UK. 2016, the UK votes at nearly 52% to leave the EU. I don't even... I don't... Queen Elizabeth II, longest reigning British monarch, passes away. Her son, King Charles III, is coronated. Crowned. So there you go, an oversimplified outline of the thousands of years of like 70, 20, 10% British, Scottish, Welsh history all jammed into a cheesy U-turn. YouTube skit with minimal props and slapstick humor. The thing you'll hear most often from people who love the Royal Family is how good it is for tourism. Despite the fact that if we got rid of the monarchy, we could turn Buckingham Palace into a really expensive museum. Ehh, but then there wouldn't be a monarch to like fantasize about the fairy tale monarch princess, King Queen stuff, you know? It's like... But then maybe King Charles could retrain and get a different job as a charter quantitist. Yeah, but it takes away the whole fantasy aspect. We think of monarchs as like magical creatures. That's depressing! Despite an increasing number of Republicans, which in this country means people vying for a republic against the idea of a monarchy, most Brits are okay with the Royal Family. It has a unique role as both representing longevity and tradition and tabloid fodder. I don't know, I really do think it does have a lot to do with tourism. And then we come in. Whereas when Brits go on holiday, within our own country, we like to go to the seaside. Places like South End. The longest pleasure pier in the world. And speaking of which, we got a guy who kind of saved a lot of people over there and he's gonna do the famous places segment. Come on in, Mr Tommy Boy. So, other than South End Pier, the longest pleasure pier in the world, which I did save by peeing on when it was on fire. True story. Other places you need to visit are London, obviously. St. Paul's Cathedral, Buckingham Palace, The London Eye, Tower of London, Tower of Bridge, The House of Parliament, Big Ben, Red Telephone Boxes, of which many have now been repurposed. Police boxes for you Doctor Who fans. Stonehenge, Seahenge, which isn't even a henge. Silbury Hill, The Royal Ascot and its many funny hats. Bath with its Roman baths. The Jurassic Coast, including Dirtle Door, The Ammonites and Fossil Beach in Lime Regis. Windsor Castle, The Shambles in York, The Peek and Lake Districts, The Eden Project. Next, we're gonna do whales. Many castles including Cardiff Run, Conway, Cuffilly, Cardiff, Snowdonia with Mount Snowden, which you can actually go up on a train. Penrins, Lake Quarry, The Underground, Shrampoline Park in Clechwood. Dobby the House of Scrave, where people keep leaving their socks. So next, we're gonna go up to Scotland. First, you have to start with Edinburgh with its Royal Mile, Cowdson Hill. The castles, St Kilda, Orkney and Lewis for Neolithic stone circles. Shetland for ponies, Isle of Skye, Loch Ness, what I personally think is the coolest thing in the whole of the UK. Fingal's Cave, it's on the island of Staffa. You can walk in the cave, you can walk on it, on top. There are puffins everywhere and when you're on the boat, there are whales and dolphins swimming next to you. We jump across to Northern Ireland, which you can actually see from Scotland, fun fact. And we start off with the Giant's Causeway, Caracareed, Rope Bridge. The Titanic Museum, The Dark Hedges and now for the Overseas Territories. The Gibraltar Rock with its Barbary Oaks, Jersey where you can see some cows. Guernsey and Alderney, some of the most fortified islands on Earth. And go to the Island Man to see the TT motorbike races. I mean, overall, I'm so glad I got to do this trip. It was so fun, it was so fun. We went to the Heddles Cave. That was a lot of process and we didn't even scratch the surface. Or the scratchy bottom. But alas, we must move on to the next segment of this ever-complicated nation, the physical geography. Now, when discussing the landscape of the UK, most people, you know, they just kind of like default in their minds. The typical hilly green pastures or the Scottish Highlands and just like a lot of rain. And yes, that does apply to much of the country, but if we're going to be technical, you can also include coconut tree-lined atolls, frozen glaciers, erupting volcanoes, beaches with penguins and much more. Let's look at the map to explain, shall we? First of all, the main part of the country, Great Britain and Northern Ireland, are located in the western parts of the Eurasian Plate with many, many fault lines feeding through, especially in the island of Great Britain. The most general way to divide the island is with the T's X-Line, which is an imaginary diagonal boundary that separates the lowlands with the Highland regions in the north and west. This geologic formation is also what contributes to some hot spring areas along the line, most notably in areas like Derbyshire and the city of Bath. The most notable fault line though would be the Great Glen Fault up in Scotland, which splits like a scar through the Scottish Highlands, which are the highest part of the country, and also hold the tallest peak of the country, Ben Nevis. This fault line also creates long, deep, rift lakes like the famous Loch Ness, which is the most voluminous lake in the entire country, holding nearly double the amount of water in all the lakes of England and Wales combined. If you want to find the lake with the largest surface area though, you'd have to go to Northern Ireland and visit Loch Ness. If you want to find the longest river though, many people might mistakenly say it's the Thames, which although it is an important river that goes through London, it is not the longest. The longest is actually the Severn River that starts in the Highlands of Wales and meanders through England and empties into Bristol Bay. In any case, if we want to be completely well-rounded on the sovereign domain of the UK, you could include everything from the tropical beaches of Caribbean island territories like Anguilla and Turks and Caicos. Montserrat Island actually had an enormous volcanic eruption in 1995 that destroyed the entire southern part of the island, including the former capital Plymouth. The South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are the coldest parts of the UK's territories with permanent glaciers and protected wildlife breeding grounds. The South Sandwich Islands are pretty volcanically active too, especially Mount Belinda, Mount Currie and Mount Michael, which create an eerie sight of fire and ice when they erupt. In any case, these are all just examples that show the range of what you can naturally find in areas that fall within the sovereignty of the UK. Now, despite being a nation smaller in area than the country of Guinea and West Africa, the UK today stands with the sixth largest national economy by nominal GDP in the world. We used to be number five. Many factors attributed to this prosperity growth, such as the Industrial Revolution or the fact that we were an island isolated, but not too isolated from continental Europe, with access to multiple naval trade routes that we dominated and protected. Now, this is where I usually take my triple shot espresso break and do all fills in for the rest of the segment. However, since I'm here in the UK, I guess I'll have to switch things up and do an English breakfast tea break. Coming right up. Here you go. Take this. Oh, wow. This is a thing that you guys do. Sugar? Uh, you're getting that much. Okay. I mean, it's not bad. It's good, but like, is there any way to make it stronger? As strong as it needs to be. Oh, he's drinking it. Can I try some? I don't hate it as much as I should. You don't hate it as much as... Yes! America and the UK join forces! All right, the UK. Let's get to it. Okay. So historically, many of the parts that made up the UK followed some brutal and ineffective economic practices. For example, people were expected to stay and work in their home parishes, even if there was no work. Those that wandered off to find work elsewhere were deemed to be mega-bonds and if caught were subject to things like whippings or being put into stocks. Yeah, that didn't work out so well. Eventually though, over time, many parts of what are now England fell into a system of mercantilism or a policy that attempted to maximize terrorist exports with quotas while minimizing imports. That kind of worked, but as you know, most of the world hates tariffs, so eventually they had to drop that system in 1840. The Industrial Revolution was without a doubt a game changer that launched the UK into global dominance. Things like the sewing machine, steam-powered engines and turbines, the telegraphs, and revolutionalizing the entire manufacturing system where now things were made by machine instead of by hand. Every region had their distinct industry and resources. Newcastle focused on shipbuilding from Manchester, Cotton, Middlesbrough, Iron and Steel, Scotland, Wool and linen. Telegraphs can now send messages from the UK to India in hours. You could arrive to a destination in a few hours via train instead of days by horse and carriage. With this new advancement and advantage, the UK chains their strategy becoming a hegemonic naval powerhouse while subsidizing and delegating specific regions for private trading companies to monopolize off of. For example, the Muscovy Company was in charge of trading with Russia. The East India Company took over the Indian Ocean and the Hudson Bay Company was in charge of Canada. Granted, much of their economic activity was also riddled with labor from enslaved African peoples, even though it was never recognized in British law. Most of the about two and a half million people were transported to the Caribbean, the second most popular destination after Brazil, to work on mostly sugar plantations between the 17th and 19th centuries. Eventually slavery was abolished in 1807 with the Slave Trade Act. However, in practice it still went on for over two more decades until the Slave Abolition Act was passed in 1833. Of course, this was a dark moment of history for the UK. Eventually those sugar plantation islands would gain independence and form new nations like Jamaica, Barbados and most of the lesser and tillies islands. Overall, you can see how the story of industrialization mixed with naval trade were key factors. And speaking of naval activity, you can occasionally find things like grey seals and basking sharks in the waters around the UK. And to talk more about the wildlife, here's Gary Arlo. You look a lot like Caleb. All back! You can't get rid of me and my amazingly accurate Aussie accent. So first, let's focus on Great Britain. Today there are 14 national parks, nine in England, three in Wales and two in Scotland. There aren't many large mammals found on the island. Today, the largest native mammal is the Red Deer. Most of the predators like wolves and bears were hunted to extinction centuries ago. Those bearskin caps worn by the Queen's Guard were actually made from Canadian black bear pelts. As a temperate climate zone, reptiles are not very common. Only three native species of lizard exist and all snakes except the European Edda are non-venomous. The national animals of the UK all make no sense. For England, it's the lion, which is not even native to the European continent, let alone the UK. Whereas for Scotland, it's the unicorn and Wales is the Welsh dragon, which haven't been discovered yet, but I'm on it. Most people will say that the English bulldog is a very iconic animal that epitomises the British spirit. Otherwise, if we are discussing overseas territories abroad, the wildlife spectrum expands to a wide range that includes things like flamingos and iguanas in Turks and Caicos, to elephant seals and macaroni penguins of the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands as they are very popular breeding ground for various species. I guess that's it. I guess I'll go back into the blackness now. I fade out. Obscurity is where I go. Where will he go next? Thank you, Gary. Definitely not Caleb Marlowe. Well, as you can see, the ocean has played a huge role in the UK story, whether it be the naval trading routes or the fishing industry. To talk more about the food of the UK, here's one of our British jagger peeps, Rob. Hey, what's going on guys? So it's my section now. Noah, I'm coming for you. The Britain tends to have a reputation, particularly among the rest of Europe, for having dull, bland, flavourless food. But you know what? I would say that's not the case. No, it's just we enjoy more cozy food and we do have flavour. For one, the most popular dish in Britain by some distance is a curry. Most notably is the chicken tikka masala, which wasn't even invented in India, claimed to be invented by a Pakistani in Glasgow. The dish we're most particularly proud of has to be the full English. You know, your breakfast, the eggs, your bean, bacon, sausage, black pudding, sheared tomatoes and mushrooms. Otherwise, some of the top dishes you might encounter on a visit to the UK are things like Yorkshire pudding, bangers and mash, marmite. But if you do put it on toast, you've got to put it lightly. You can't overdo it. Lancashire hot pot toad in the hole, Welsh rare bit, Cornish pasties, Scotch egg, beef Wellington, shepherd's pie, steak and kidney pie, pie and mash with jelly deals, which is the East London, cockney delicacy. We love our meat pies. And of course, you cannot visit the UK without having our most famous dish, fish and chip. Whitby is known for having some of the best fish and chips in the country. For dessert, you might want to try something like an eaten mess, baked well tart, sticky toffee pudding, trifle and so much more. I hope you guys come and have a bite. See you in the UK. Look out for a Rob Peters. Thank you, Rob. Hey Noah, he said he's coming for you. What do you say to that? We'll see. Well, that's all I got for you all today. I will catch you on the next one. Back to you, Barb's and Jay. Thank you. That was awesome. You did a great job. We just had a whole section about British food and you didn't mention crumpets. Oh, I'll get your crumpet. Hang on. Oh, oh, okay. This is a crumpet. Is that butter? Mm hmm. I like butter. I approve. Uh, demographics. Okay, no. Question is, what does it mean to be British? A British person is a Greg sausage roll, knowing the difference between a cheeky Nando's and spoons. Welcome to Wales. Hey. We actually are a country. We have a language. It's the rugby, the communities and the sights, as you can see. For me, a Scottish person is someone who has broad, thick accent. It is barely recognizable. Iron Brew, the Proclaimers, Still Game, Haggis. This is our wee hill in Glen. For English breakfast on a Saturday morning and irony. You should have a Sunday roast in a pub on Sunday. Someone of any background and everyone has a voice. Everyone can say what they want. Bloody brilliance at queuing. We could be passively, aggressively polite. Someone who loves to complain about the weather. You complain about the weather, complain about the football, even when they win. I think that relates to all British people is the fact that we created all these sports and yet we're so bad at all of them. Uniform, the benches for the year six, biffin chip. Someone from the UK is very self-deprecating. We love to take the piss. It's kind of like licorice all sorts. Everyone is mixed up with different things but it's kind of like a big family that kind of argues with each other. So what is a person from the UK? Well, I mean that question already in itself kind of has a little bit of a title dilemma in it. Sometimes it's hard to even give a demonym for the people living here and for many of the people and depending on the area, the title British might not even be considered applicable. Yeah, Scottish and Welsh people will typically tell you that they are Scottish and Welsh first. People on the Isle of Man are Manx and all those penguins in South Georgia are... But for what it's worth, there's so much that goes into the concept of identity. When you break down the typical person that comes from the UK, it's not an easy question to answer. But what we can attempt to break down is the ethnic makeup of the country in the demographics graph. Henceforth, let's do it. For one, the UK has just over 68 million people and as of 2023 is speculated to now have the third largest population in Europe just surpassing France. When it comes to ethnic makeup, it's a little complicated to come by but according to the most recent data from the Office of National Statistics, it is reported that the largest group are the white British peoples at somewhere around 87% of the country. This category is pretty broad, however. The Office designates white into subgroups of white British, which include Scottish and Welsh, Irish, Irish Traveler and whites of other nationalities. The remaining 13-ish percent are made up of other non-white ethnic backgrounds. The largest being Asian British peoples at somewhere around 7% of the country. The majority come from South Asian countries like India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. About 3% are black British, mostly from Caribbean and West African backgrounds. And around 2% identify as ethnically mixed individuals and around 1% identify with other groups. The UK uses the type G plug outlet and they drive on the left side of the road and fun fact it's because of the jousting thing, I believe? Sort of. So no one really knows why but one theory is that when medieval jousting happened you used to hold a sword in your right hand so it made sense to pass on the left. The majority of the UK uses the British pound sterling as its currency, sometimes called quid. That's right. Except in certain overseas territories they may use other regional currencies. And that brings us to another quirky aspect of the UK. Units of measurement. So the UK was of course the birthplace of the famous Imperial system. However over the past few decades the UK has been begrudgingly transitioning partially to metric. And the choice of units to use is absolutely insane. For example, speed, miles per hour, temperature, centigrade, for weight. If the subject is a person you can use stone or pounds for everything else, kilos and grams. For distance. If it's long distance like on the road we use miles unless if you're running then it's kilometers. But if measuring a person you use feet and inches, any other object though meters and centimeters. For volume. Letters and milliliters unless it's beer or milk when we use pints. But only cow's milk not plant milk in which case they use pints. But pints that are a little bigger than American pints. Yeah, that's a thing. That's a thing. Although there's technically no official language, the country's de facto national language is of course English. Or technically modern English which is incredibly different from old English. And during the 16th century Shakespearean times an early version of the modern style of English we know today started to evolve. Thank you Shakespeare. And this of course brings us to the famous British versus American English scenarios. The spelling subtleties are minor. Brits tend to spell words that are more similar to their Latin and Germanic origins whereas Americans spell things more phonetically. Otherwise some words are just completely different such as Apartment Flat Fries Chips Crisp Truck Lorry Gas Petrol Cookie Biscuit Rubbish bin Yard Garden Sidewalk Pavement Pavement Road surface Candy Sweets Faucet Tap Spigot Tap Flashlight Torch Oatmeal Porridge But I do admit I like porridge better because it reminds me of fairy tales from childhood. And I just try saying the word porridge and not being just a little bit more happy. Porridge. It's like Goldilocks in the Three Bears. Porridge. Porridge. And don't even get me started on the accents. In fact it's speculated that the UK has the largest variation of accents in a single language of any country in the world. Somewhere around 40 to 50 I believe. It is not. If you think about just how small our islands are and yet the accents have remained really resilient. The two cities of Liverpool and Manchester only 30 miles apart they sound completely different. Otherwise the UK also has regionally recognized native Celtic based minority languages. For example Cornish is spoken in Cornwall by about four people. And Scottish Gallic is spoken in Scotland. And by far the biggest of these surviving Celtic languages is Welsh. There are even Welsh TV channels and shows. Radio stations and almost all road signs are posted in Welsh and English in Wales. Each of these languages play a vital role to the cultures of their respective communities. Religion! Now this is an interesting one because for most of the UK's history there's always been kind of like a complication when it came to religious affairs and leadership. After the Church of England renounced paper authority from the Catholic Church in 1534 things got tricky. It was kind of like Oh heavens our dear monarch Hath Doth Dunneth died. Who shouts be if next in line? If. It's in certain name of next to kin. But here's the problem. They're Catholic. Jolly totally wonkles. No! Let's burn things. That seems to solve problems. Burn! And it's like how 28% of their domestic wars started. In any case the country is technically a Christian country. Actually it's technically a theocracy where the crown gets its power from God, long story. And a majority of them hold religion to more of a traditional role, mostly preserved for national festivals, traditions and even schools and politics. With all that said and done it's very important to also highlight the immigrant and non-European communities that make up a very notable demographic of the UK as well. The black community dates back to the 17th century when attendants and servants were brought over such as John Blank during the Tudor dynasty who was paid about 16 pence a day for his trumpeting skill. Most of the enslaved black people were brought to the Caribbean, not Great Britain. So the black British community stayed relatively small and was mostly confined to Liverpool. It wasn't until the mid 20th century when communities from the Caribbean and West Africa started to set up communities over here. The UK also has the oldest Chinese community in Europe arriving in the 19th century followed by other Asian groups like Indians and Arabs. Basically no matter who you are or what you are, everyone born and raised in the UK will have a common understanding of a certain set of values and customs unique to the UK. For one, the schooling system. Oh this is a weird one. Yeah so you might have got hints of what it's like from the Harry Potter films and books. Uniforms are worn not only to show school identity but also to foster a sense of unity and equality. And you can't make fun of the kids that wear bad clothes because they're all wearing the same thing. Yeah. Nobody can...well you can still bully people. Also like... It's not on clothes. Education is a huge part of our culture. English, maths. That's right. Maths not maths. You say maths. I say maths. Not mathematics. And science and even physical education are compulsory subjects for every stage until the GCSE exams and compulsory education ends at age 18. Yeah and you have that college is another thing you guys at but it's like... Well right. College is for older children. It's for teenagers who've chosen to study something very specific. Yes. Yeah. Whereas in America it's just you call college what we call university. It's where we get wasted because we're saying we're studying but we're not. Another unique trait of the UK's social atmosphere is the fact that since it is a constitutional monarchy, much of the country has a deep tie to the traditions related to said monarchy. The inner core of the royal family today has about 50 or so members that are either descended or married into the House of Windsor. Only that half of them actually carry out royal duties which usually include diplomatic missions and being the face of the UK. Whatever you want to make of that. Outside of the royal family of course many noblemen were appointed leadership roles over certain areas and today you can still even find many people that are descended from these lesser ranked individuals that had ties to the monarchs. Well you can but you have to go to the very posh public schools which by the way is what we call what you call private schools. Right. I'm going to people who say I'm actually 718th in line to the throne because my third father once removed was the 13th Duke of Duchess of Wyndham. Sometimes you'll find heirs to the throne where you least expect it. For example did you know that Olympian Zara Phillips is the Queen's granddaughter? No I did not know that. But we can learn more about the sports of the UK with art with the sports part. Sport part. The sport part. Alright guys I'm back. Let's get athletic and the UK is quite the contender. They have nearly a thousand medals in the Olympics and nearly 300 of which are gold. The UK is the father of many types of sports. Rugby, cricket, yes even soccer or football and hey for all you brits that are criticizing us Americans for calling it soccer we got the word from you. You invented it. It came from the word association football. So it's kind of your fault. Although the concept of playing a game where you kick a ball around has been around since the ancient times the modern version of what we call football was started in the UK in the 19th century using inflated pig bladders. I wonder how they got started with that. They're just like eating some bacon and then they're like oh that looks kind of inflatable you know. So far England has won one World Cup in 1966 against West Germany and it was in the iconic old Wembley Stadium that has since been torn down due to infrastructure problems and it was buried under a huge grass mound. Also the trophy was stolen but found by Pickles the dog. True story. Either way football is such a huge part of the UK's identity and they could talk about it forever. They even have a subculture of hooligans or the obnoxious football fans that like always get drunk and start fights and beat each other up. It's almost like a whole other sport itself and it's equally entertaining to watch like drunken MMA right? Yeah. Otherwise the modern form of rugby or rugby union was invented in the town of rugby where it got its name from. However many will say rugby is actually descended from the Welsh game, Knapin, which is why today some of the best rugby players come from Wales and it is a huge part of their national identity. Cricket was invented in South England in the 1500s and is one of the most long-winded sports that can last days to finish. Scotland is also a hub of inventing sports. The modern version of golf was also started in Scotland in the 16th century and water polo in the 19th century. Scotland is also most noted for their Highland games where a bunch of people in kilts compete in a series of strength-based events like the Kaver toss, Scottish hammer throw and the weight over bar toss. Oh by the way, I did a DNA test, came back 48% Scottish. I thought you were Polish. Yeah, so a lot less Polish than what I thought. What? I mean it makes sense, Donny. Don't take me in. It makes sense, the ginger eat. The ginger, I'm Scottish. I should have known. In Northern Ireland it's not uncommon to see Gaelic football and hurling being played native to the island. The UK is also known for their weird and wacky sports and competitions people loving taking part in such as the Cooper Hill cheese rolling race thing, Tar Barrel Racing, Toe Wrestling, Shin Kicking. Let's do that one. We'll do it after this. Pancake racing, the Stinging Nettle Eating Contest. Yeah, I used to get stung by those things all the time when I was a kid. Like I cannot imagine eating those things. Bravy wrestling. These are weird. They even have a gurning contest which is where like in order to win you have to make like the ugliest face possible. Like this. In any case, that's all I got for ya. Cheerio, Toodle Pop, Jolly Good, Crumbly Wrinkles, Old Chap and F***ing whatever. I'm gonna get that. This ginger's gonna skedaddle outta here. Toodle-loo. Thank you Art. Jay, what are some of the biggest most notable traditions you've experienced living here? The day after Christmas, we call it Boxing Day, the 26th of December. It's the extension of the holiday. So you get yet another day off work and there's also a lot of football going on and lots of great stuff on the telly. I thought that was the day where you box each other because you're fighting over cheap prices at the grocery stores. Actually, fun fact, the reason it's called Boxing Day is... Barb's was kind of right. Originally it was supposed to be about giving gifts to the poor but now it's about getting half off deals at the mall. Yeah, Boxing Day. Okay, well, good way to transition into the culture of the UK and with that let's bring it to our homegirl, Hannah, with the culture segment. Hey guys, I'm back. Well actually now, we're back. If you don't get it, I'm pregnant. Hannah did a thing. And Ian, he was there too. Okay, this is gonna be a heavy one because with the UK, it's almost like you're getting an economy-sized, multi-packaged deal of culture and tradition. For one, you must distinguish between whether someone is from England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the overseas territories, or Crown dependencies. To break it down a little easier, you have the Celtic areas and then you have the Anglo-Saxons side. So let's start with a quick overview of Scotland. Cultural rule number one, do not attempt the accent. Even if you think you're good at it, just don't. You're not good at it. That was so bad. Historically, Scotland was divided by clans, each with their own territory. Each clan even had their own plaid tartan design. And Scottish last names often have a map before it. Some very notable cultural aspects you will probably encounter at some point include Kaylee dances, bagpipes. January 25th is a huge deal. When they celebrate Burns night, New Year's Eve is called Hogmany, fireball swinging. And the first person to enter the household is considered the bringer of good luck. And the iconic New Year's song, Old Lang Syne. You know that song. Old Lang Syne. Who knew that's what they were saying, I was just making words up. Also, everyone in Scotland will tell you to try a deep fried Marge bar. And now, Wales. Wales is a unique and very underrated place. It is the land of song poetry, but at the same time, hardcore rugby, shankyking dragons and powerful castles. In Wales, the daffodil is a symbol used for women and the leek used for men. Typical emblems of the daffodil or leek are worn on St. David's Day, where people clean their rooms and are nice to one another. Are they not nice other days? One day a year to be nice. And speaking of which, love spoons. In Wales, traditionally, a man would carve a spoon and give it to the woman he loved. They have the Marry Lloyd celebration, where they put a horse of school on a pole. The Don's gum, right? The Estid Fod is a huge deal. Every Welsh person will bring up Tom Jones. I love you, you won't be loved by anyone. Moving on to Northern Ireland. This is a complicated one because it's kind of like if the UK and Ireland had a confusing baby that had an identity crisis. Avoiding all the complicated politics that go into this one. This area obviously has a more Irish Celtic influence and has a mix of Protestant Catholic peoples. This is the only place that allows people to freely choose to have either one or both citizenship of either the UK or Ireland. Keep in mind, this is not the official flag of Northern Ireland. Just watch this show Dairy Girls. It does a great job at covering the general idea of what Northern Ireland was like, especially at the end of the conflict era. England! It is in itself super complicated and culturally diverse. It is home to the monarchy, which is a vital aspect of their identity. Keep in mind, although certain individuals can be knighted for their accomplishments, it is only a recognition, not an inclusion into royalty. Generally speaking, English regional cultures are mostly Anglo-Saxon based and concentrated in six areas. Speaking of which, England has the widest range of classical architecture. You can find people living in Tudor style half Timberthats, roofed homes, next to Victorian, next to Georgian, next to Art Deco, all in the same block. Also, the UK loves to give regional nicknames to people. Liverpool people, Scows, Birmingham, or Brumies, Manchester is Manc, Newcastle is Geordie, Sunderland is Macon, Devon and Plymouth Oak are Janners, East Londoners are Cockney, and they speak in a weird codified language. Much of what might be considered English culture was spurred off by the English Renaissance. The era created some of the most renowned authors and playwrights. Most notable, the man himself, William Shakespeare. As a nation, the UK was the home of many inventions and discoveries. Way too many people to mention, we'll just pop up a list here. Cinema has always been a huge part of UK culture and has been contributing to the world since 1888, when the first motion picture in the world was shot in Leeds by Louis Le Prince. Hey, Louis Le Prince was not British, he was French. I know, I'm just saying he made his motion picture in the UK. D'accord, tu peux continuer maintenant. Anywho, the fact that the American version of the office was inspired by the UK version of the office and that is one of our most well-renowned television shows is amazing. I mean, it's one of my favorite TV shows of all time. Honestly, I think we did better though, come on. Kevin Malone, best character. Kevin Malone! Our version of Dwight is way better than y'all's, I'm so sorry. That is true. He really is. In any case, the territories and crown dependencies all have their own unique traits as well. Jersey and Guernsey and the Isle of Man each have their own languages and confusing political systems. In Gibraltar, people speak Yanito. The Pitcairn Islands has a Polynesian creole called Pitcairn. Turks and Caicos has a Caribbean house evolution vote party and the Cayman Islands have an entire week dedicated to pirates. Well, that was a lot and we didn't even cover a small fraction of everything that could be discussed with the UK culture. And of course, one huge facet of UK culture is their music. And with that, Keith is on tour. Can't leave his dream job to be here. Oh, so let's give this segment to a British musician. Why? Say hi to David. And we got David here. Explain who you are. Introduce yourself. I'm a music nerd from the UK and I have a channel called David Bennett Piano. Britain has always had a rich musical culture. We had the Elizabethan Lute music of John Dowland, the Grand Broke music of Handel, and at the start of the 20th century, we had two of Britain's most influential composers, Gustav Holst and Edward Elgar. But it wasn't really until the 1960s that British music became the global cultural export that it is today. Of course, I'm talking about the British invasion, where bands such as the Rolling Stones, the Kinks, the Animals and of course the Beatles took the world by storm. And then since that invasion, the UK has continued to contribute to global popular music. Many genres of music can trace their origins back to the UK. Heavy metal, for example, was pioneered in the early 70s by the likes of Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple, and many of Prog Rock's most iconic bands hailed from the UK, including Pink Floyd, Yes and Genesis. Highly successful artists have hailed from every corner of the UK. The most famous Welsh musician is probably Sir Tom Jones. Northern Ireland has Van Morrison and Scotland's most successful musician is probably Calvin Harris. Britain has always had a strong history of folk music as well, particularly in Scotland where Gaelic language music is still very popular with artists like Julie Fowler continuing the tradition today. Queen, David Bowie, George Michael, Kate Bush, Oasis, Elton John, Radiohead, Muse, Coldplay, The Spice Girls, Ed Sheeran, Adele, And even since that British invasion in the 1960s, the UK has not stopped churning out culture-defining music, and I'm sure it will play a major part in popular music for decades to come. Thank you David. Actually, guys, if you know, Jay is a musician. You make music as well. I do it sometimes. What are some of your biggest inspirations in music? Is it really, really boring and dull and uninteresting if I say that my favourite band is The Beatles? Yeah, it kind of does. Yeah, sorry. Basic! Well, we covered so much in this segment. Jay, what else can we talk about in this episode? Shall we do The Friend Zone? So obviously, the UK has a lot of diversity, and of course, it's due to their history. As you can see, Britain has had a fair few dealings with other countries around the world, which brings us to... The animation, the motion graphic. First of all, as a permanent member of the UN Security Council and founding member of numerous IGOs such as the G7, NATO, World Trade Organization and Council of Europe, the UK has lots of international ties. Although the Brexit situation did cut them off from EU authority, many of the diplomatic laws and trade deals with the EU are almost exactly the same as they were pre-Brexit, and today the interaction is still there and open. It's just a little different when it comes to certain legislative issues like immigration and economic policy. This is a topic for another time. In any case, the UK has spent the last 100 years coming to terms with the fact that they were pretty much seen as the antagonist in so many independent stories across the world. Even though the empire has gone, its influence is still strongly felt around the world, with lots of other countries speaking English, playing cricket, having similar-ish systems of government, and so on. Many of these countries are members of the Commonwealth of Nations, and the monarch is still, at least in a figurehead sense, the head of state of many of them. The UK still has very close relations to the Commonwealth countries, with many of these people settling in the UK, most notably some of the largest diaspora communities from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ghana and the Caribbean. The UK, or England in particular, had a massive rivalry with France riddled with war for much of their history. For the last century though, especially after World War II, they've done a complete 180 and have found themselves on the same team in almost all global conflicts, and each side loves to poke fun but in a loving way at each other. Interestingly enough, the country they probably have the most in common with, Ireland, has had quite a few scuffles in conflict, especially before the Good Friday Agreement was signed in 1998. Today, however, you can't deny that the citizens of both countries enjoy an extremely close relationship. Many British people have Irish heritage, they intermarry quite a bit, and many have dual citizenship. Australia and Spain have the largest communities of British national residents living abroad. Australia has always been a hotbed destination for immigration, for Brits, seeking the warmer climate, and specifically for Spain, Ibiza is almost like a little Britain, as so many British people either go there on holiday or to move. In terms of their best friends, however, many in the UK would probably say the USA, and maybe some might include Canada. The biggest differences between the two is that the USA gained full independence through revolution, whereas Canada just kind of stayed British until they slowly over time requested to be given more and more autonomy until technically 1982 when they adopted their own constitution, but still remained under the Commonwealth. It wasn't even long after the Revolutionary War that the UK and USA quickly patched things up. Having a shared language and today a population with about 11% of its people ethnically descended from British roots has not only further helped them communicate and relate culturally, but eventually they've joined in almost all major international conflicts since the mid-19th century. Today they swap each other's films, TV shows, music, and so on. And in Europe, anything USA related will typically have some kind of connection to the UK as they kind of act as like the link between North America and Europe. Overall, the USA and UK may have started sour, but today they have never been closer. Alright, and with that in conclusion, J.U.R. The Brit, I'm going to give this to you. In conclusion, sorry about the empire, but basically Britain is now finding its role as a modern progressive country that hopes to leave a good mark on the world. This flag actually makes me realize that when Brits go abroad, even though we like to claim that we're not very patriotic, you know, we go abroad and it turns out, yes, we really are. We really care and we really do love our country and they hate when people fly their flag upside down! Isn't also backwards. Everything's wrong. Well, J.U.R. I think there was nobody better than you to be in this episode and to co-host with me. Guys, I guess that means stay tuned. The home country USA is coming up next. Good luck.