 Hey, Jugga Pooops! As you know, I'm American and I just got my Angola phone family reunion invite so I guess I have to show up to be polite and all. What? Hi Dad. It's time to learn geography. Hey everyone, I'm your host barb. Just get your jug of knowledge like this jug of nautisha. At jugofnaut.com, not selling out if it's your brand. Well, here I am in the big crumpet, the big uck, the land of kings, queens and in-betweens. At one point, a quarter of the world's population in land area was under their rule. Of course, such a story came with lots of complicated chapters and when it comes to complication, usually it's best to have a person from the country come along and help out. And for this episode, I could not think of anyone better to speak on behalf of the UK than my go-to Brit. But if you already know him, come on in ladies and gentlemen, say hello to Mr. J. Forming. Hi, hello. Hello. Thank you so much. I've always wanted to be on geography now. We, tell him how we met. I think I started watching geography now back in the Belgium days. You accidentally stole a map from an episode of Matt Man and now with the best of you, you just want to know. Yeah, yeah, I stole your map. I've probably stolen more from elsewhere. By the way, Jay, a lot has probably happened over the years. What have you been up to? Uh, this? Oh, yeah, oh, you made something. Yeah, make one of these. Ah, okay, it's really good. Yeah, so let's talk about your country now. Shelds did a, just, we. That is how we took. So the UK today is very different from what it used to be. And note, we're not referencing how the island used to be connected to the rest of continental Europe via Dogoland. And no, we're not referencing the Mesolithic errands, Burgian hunter gathers, all the Neolithic agriculture list and enormous stone transporting and sourced as measuring people's. No, we're referencing a time later on when the entire island was just a mess of plans, shift-ups, opposing monarchs and outside monarchs trying to come in and outmonarch the said monarchs. It wasn't until much later that the country actually completed unifying everything on the island of Great Britain, plus Northern Island, don't forget Northern Island. And all the overseas territories don't forget the overseas territories and found dependency. You could probably forget the pound of pendants. Yeah, because there's like a whole other thing going on. Oh, yeah. And you guys have a town called T.O. Yeah. There's a place near here called Trotters Bottom. I went to B.F. Oh, and of course you can't forget. Man, I had a quick interview with Santa City, oh, oh, oh. Very good, very good. Very good, excellent. Here's actually speaking of places in Britain. Did you know that we've got some of the weirdest and hardest to pronounce places in the world? Okay, Le Cester, Fromi, Rue Slip, Cha- Cha- Cha- Cheers, Wick, Landfall. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Sanesley. Lenelli. Sanesley. Oh yeah, that's Welsh isn't it? It is Welsh. Oh, those Welsh, you can't trust them. Well, in any case, let's look at the map, shall we? First of all, the main chunk of what makes up the UK is Great Britain. Located off the northwestern coast of the continental mainland of Europe, North of France, separated by the English channel and east of Ireland, separated by the Irish sea to the east, as well as the North Sea and to the north, the North Atlantic. The island of Great Britain is made up of three constituent countries, England, which holds about 84% of the country's population, Scotland, which holds about 8% and Wales, and about 1.5%. From there, they also administer Northern Ireland, which doesn't exactly have an official political title, some say it's a constituent country, some say it's a region or province, but to this day, it lies across the Irish sea on the northern section of the island of Ireland. Making it their largest land border with any country. Outside of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the UK has three crown dependencies and 14 overseas territories, 12 of which are small islands in the Caribbean Atlantic, Indian and Pacificocians, and two of them, Gibraltar and the sovereign bases of Accrat area and Decalia, are small areas attached to the larger shared land masses of Spain and Cyprus. Keep in mind the crown dependencies of the Isle of Man, Gernsey and Jersey are technically not considered part of the UK, but are still subject to the UK's defense and international representation. And finally, the British Antarctic territory and its main base at Rothera is a section of Antarctica that does not have any actual sovereign status, as all countries are subject to the Antarctic Treaty which states no one can colonize the continent. The entire domain that falls under the UK's sovereignty spans across nine times zones. In a way back to the main island, this is where things take a twist. First off, keep in mind, each of the constituent countries of Scotland and Wales, as well as whatever you want to label Northern Ireland, has their own Parliament system with a head called a first minister, whereas England does not have its own separate Parliament, as they just use the same country capitals, Westminster, Pals building, as the meeting place for all English elected constituent officials, since it's pretty much always been the spot used for them anyway, and they see no need to complicate things further. On paper, England has 48 counties. Scotland has 32 council areas, Wales has 22 principal areas, and Northern Ireland has six counties. However, keep in mind, many of these are disputed, people don't pay attention to them, and many might just refer to their traditional areas, which is another topic. In any case, the capital and largest city and largest city in western Europe is London. After that, its Manchester at number two and Birmingham at number three. Also, keep in mind, the city of London, or the city of London Corporation, has its own separate government, which is independent from the rest of the country. This means that the Lord Mayor of London is technically the highest-ranking official in the UK after the monarch, even though the city of London and itself is just one small part of Greater London. London alone has four of the top 10 busiest airports in the country. He throw Gatwick's Danstedt and Lutin, whereas outside of the London area, Manchester International comes in at number three and Edinburgh International at number six. Just on the east side of England lies the port of Felix Stowe, the largest and busy shipping port of the country. The country has a very extensive road and rail network, and otherwise London's Waterloo and Victoria are the largest train stations, and the completion of the channel in 1994 officially connected the UK to the rest of mainland Europe via France. Except literally no one calls it the channel ever. I call it the channel. No, you don't. It's the channel tunnel or the Euroster or Lushutl or anything but channel no one says Chunk. Going to Chunk. So as you can see when it comes to the administrative division, the UK is quite possibly the biggest nightmare in the world. And keep in mind, we didn't even imagine or the other confusing administrative levels like combined authority areas, metropolitan counties, lieutenant areas or left-tenancy areas, depending how you want to pronounce it, power-shes words. It's a lot. To help a little bit more on understanding on how all these things actively work, we could mention the 650 constituency system in which 650 small consections of the country get represented in the Parliament with a representative. It's so complicated. The way we do things in this country is if it ain't broke, don't fix it. And if it is massively broke, still don't fix it. Anyway off of that note, the UK has a bicameral legislature consisting of the House of Commons and the House of Lords. So the House of Commons is the one that you see in the TV and the House of Lords is the big room next door where they wear robes and this weird and the wigs too, right? Wigs sometimes. And they're appointed. So there are four ways you get into the House of Lords. One of them is by giving lots of money to the governing party and then they sort of as a favour, make you a Lord, but that's not officially how it works. So don't I, I don't know what I said. The other way is if you're an expert in something like the Lord or the Arts or Beer. The other way is if you happen to be born with a dad who's already a hereditary peer. So it can be hereditary. It can be hereditary. And you allow to become a member of the House of Lords as long as you don't have any older brothers. Isn't it insane? Some British place names just from looking at the name you can tell which part of the country it's in. So for example if it's got a Celtic name which means it has words like Tret, Lach, Brin and Aber that means you're likely to find it in Wales. Or if it's got a Viking suffix such as Wait, Thor, Kirk or B that means you're likely to find it in the North. And then they're the Anglo-Saxon place name such as Inham, Berry, Ford, Port and so on and so on. So you can actually tell which group of people influence which area based off of the suffix of the name of the place. So it's also that was probably more true hundreds of years ago and now these days all the names get mixed up and they come up with new place names all the time. God God, how about Trader's bottom? So all of that brings us to the obvious topic. The UK is a constitutional monarchy technically the King is in charge and it's his country and it's his laws but how this practically works is he's just a ceremony of figurehead and it's actually the government and the Prime Minister that make all the actual decisions. But he could also step in if he wanted to. In theory he could step in and say I don't like this law but he knows full well if he tried that that being instant revolution would set fucking imparison fire. You got another all over calm russ situation. Jay did a lot of videos on this type of stuff. We'll just put an annotation. Just check out his videos. Long story short, it wasn't always this way. In fact the UK's history is more like the combined histories of the three constituent countries of Scotland, England and Wales plus a little bit of Northern Ireland but that's a whole other thing. Yeah that's the thing. All right. Yeah. Even though the UK is a country like the bits that make it up are also called countries. Yeah there's no simple way to condense this whole history. Let's try anyway. Ancient beaker culture calts arrived and spits into the Britain's Gales and Picks. Romans failed to conquer the pits. They build hydrines wall. Remes leave. In come the Germanic tribes. Scotland splits into four kingdoms. Eggbook becomes the first Saxon King. And then the Ingol Saxon split into seven kingdoms. Anglo Saxon by the way is where the name England comes from. Ahhhh. Cornwall forced to westx but keeps its language and culture. Meanwhile Wales was made up of many kingdoms but the largest are gwynnid, powers and diffin. Vikings come in rate much of the heavies island and island of man. Scarts and pigs joined to create the kingdom of Alba. Danish Vikings come in and create the dangloor. This is also how lots of Danish words crept their way back into modern English such as leg, window and yes even ransack. Which was exactly what the days were doing. Ingol Saxon Felsen fight against them and becomes the first king of England. Meanwhile in the 11th century, Gutafit up the Wellen becomes the only king that ruled over all of Wales but then it is quickly killed by one of the zone people. William of Northern detail takes out the England and thus begins the Northern dynasty. Ancient empire view the house of Plantagenets begins crusades. Oops. Richard line how plays a huge role in this. King John is terrible and his parents force him to sign the Magna Carter. 1284, Edward I, Comkers Wales and integrate it into England but they maintain their language and culture. Alexander III of Scotland dies and 14 ravals claim succession to the throne. 14th century Charles IV the France dies with no air so Edward III was eligible through his mum but the French were like hell no and elected Prince Philip of Valor and hence began the 100 years war. Yes this is one of the John of Arc thing happened. Edward III dies many clavers to the throne rise up and thus begins the war of the roses. 16th century Tudor dynasty begins and thus all that crazy Henry the Aesthoff go down. You know the history, the most behedded died, divorced for headed survive. It's QCz at Rhymes. Meanwhile in 1595 the British take their first stab at colonizing was in Alvagenia in the USA which eventually evolved into the 13 colonies. Meanwhile the East India Company begins shortly after Elizabeth I rule leads to the merry queen of scouts thing and the Spanish Armada. 17th century Elizabeth I dies, closest relative is James the 6th of Scotland and he becomes ruler hence joining Scotland and England for the first time becoming the first monarch to rule over the entire island of Great Britain. Conspirators try to assassinate him and blow up Parliament aka the Guy Fox thing. Charles I have tensions and thus begins the English Civil War. Oh you ever crumb where it becomes Lord Protector after dissolving the monarchy but after he dies the monarchy is restored with Charles II. You guys really went back to that monarchy thing fast. Delage. In the 17th century Scotland unsuccessfully attempts colonies in Panama and Nova Scotia and it has an economic crisis. 1707 the union between Scotland and England is finalized. Queen Anne dies ending the house of Stuart and in comes the house of Hanover. Whoows woes and more expensive woes. Great Britain taxes colonies to try and make up for the death. Colonies aren't happy which leads to the war of independence for America. The Industrial Revolution. Let's just pass over that whole chapter. Captain James Cook swings by Australian New Zealand and hey let's establish some more penal colonies. Napoleonic woes. East India Company is met with revolt and leads to a full takeover of India in 1858. But in conference split up areas that European powers were administered in Africa. World War I, 1921, land grabs from the crumbling German and Ottoman Empire resulted in the height of the territorial rule for the UK. 1922, island breaks away. World War II, the whole Winston Churchill and the Battle of Blitz stuff happened. Afterwards, one by one the former territories got their independence. The Commonwealth of Nations is established, joined NATO, paramilitary violence in Northern Ireland. Sorry about that. Joins the European economic community which was like a predestices of the EU. Monotours and policies are enacted under the Margaret Thatcher years, Folkland Islands. 2.0 global financial crisis followed by a Scottish referendum ending in remaining part of the UK. 2016, the UK votes at nearly 52% to leave the EU. Queen Elizabeth II, longest-wraining British monarch passes away. Her son King Charles III is coronated. Crowned. So there you go and oversimplified outline of the thousands of years of like 70, 2010 percent British Scottish Welsh history all jammed into a cheesy YouTube skit with minimal props and slapstick humor. The thing you'll hear most often from people who love the Royal Family is how good it is for tourism. Despite the fact that if we got rid of the monarchy, we could turn Buckingham Palace into a really expensive museum. Ehh! But then there wouldn't be a monarch to like fantasize about the fairy tale monarch princess King Queen stuff. You know, it's like, but then maybe King Charles could retrain to get a different job as a charter quantist. Yeah, but it takes away the whole fantasy aspect. We think of monarchs as like magical creatures. That's the trick! Despite an increasing number of Republicans, which in this country means people vying for a public against the idea of a monarchy, most birds are okay with the Royal Family. It has a unique role as both representing longevity and tradition and tabloid fodder. I don't know, I really do think it does have a lot to do with tourism. And then we come in whereas when Brits go on holiday, it would be in our own country. We like to go to the seaside. Places like South End. The longest pleasure here in the world. And speaking of which, uh, we got a guy who uh kind of saved a lot of people over there and he's going to do the famous places segment. Come on in, Mr. Tommy Boy. So other than self-imped, the longest pleasure here in the world, which I did save by peeing on when it was on fire. True story, other places you need to visit are London, obviously. Simple as Cathedral, Buckingham Palace, the London Eye, Tariff London, Tower Bridge, the House of Parliament, Big Ben, Red Telephone boxes, off which many have now been repurposed. Police boxes for you, Dr. Who fans. Stonehenge, Seahenge, which isn't even a head-inch, Silver Hill. The Royal Asked Gods and its many funny heads. Bath with its Roman baths. The Jurassic Coast, including Durdledor, the Ammonites and fossil beach in lime rages, Winds of Castle. The Shambos, in York, the Peacan Lake, the Strix, the Eden Project. Next we're going to do Wales. Many castles including Carnefron, Conway, Kaffilly, Cardiff, Snowdonia, with Mount Snowdon, which you can actually go up on a train. Penorins, the Lake quarry, the Underground Shrampling Park in Clackwid, Davida House, the Scrae, where people keep leaving their socks. So next we're going to go up to Scotland. First you have to start with Edinburgh, with its Royal Mile, Caltson Hill, the castles, Centkilder, Aucklandian Louis for Neolithic Stone Circle, Shetland for Pony's, Island Sky, Loch Ness, what I personally think is the coolest thing in the whole of the UK. Thingels Cave, it's on the island of Saffar, you can walk in the cave, you can walk on it on that top. There are puffings everywhere and when you're on the boat, there are Wales and South in Swimming Next view. We jump across to Northern Ireland, which you can actually see from Scotland. Fun fact, and we start off with the Giant's Causeway, Carrecareed, Right Bridge, the Titanic Museum, the Dark Hages, and now footy overseas territories, the Gibraltar Rock with its barbry aches. Jersey, where you can see some cows. Gernsey, Gernsey an ordony, some of the most fortified islands on earth. And go to the island man to see the TT and motorbike races. I mean, overall, I'm so glad I got to do this trip. It was so fun, I was so like, that's so much fun. Okay, whoop, that was a lot of the process and we didn't even scratch the surface. Or the scratchy baron. But, Elas, we must move on to the next segment of this ever complicated nation, the physical geography. Now, when discussing the landscape of the UK, most people, you know, they just kind of like default in their minds, the typical hilly green pastures, or the Scottish Highlands, and just like a lot of rain. And yes, that does apply to much of the country, but if we're going to be technical, you can also include co-oconatory line atels, frozen glaciers, erupting volcanoes, beaches with penguins, and much more. Let's look at the map to explain, shall we? First of all, the main part of the country, Great Britain, and Northern Ireland, are located in the western parts of the Eurasian Plate, with many many fault lines feeding through, especially in the island of Great Britain. The most general way to divide the island is with the T's X-Line, which is an imaginary diagonal boundary that separates the lowlands, but the island regions in the north and west. This geological formation is also what contributes to some hot spring areas along the line, most notably in areas like Derbyshire and the city of Bath. The most notable thought line though would be the Great Glen Fault up in Scotland, which splits like a scar through the Scottish Highlands, which are the highest part of the country, and also holds the tallest peak of the country, Ben Nevis. This fault line also creates long, deep, rift lakes like the famous Loch Ness, which is the most of alumnus lake in the entire country, holding nearly doubly amount of water in all the lakes of England and Wales combined. If you want to find the lake with the largest surface area though, you'd have to go to Northern Ireland and visit Loch Ness. If you want to find the longest river though, many people might mistakenly say it's the Thames, which although it is an important river that goes through London, it is not the longest. The longest is actually the Severn river that starts in the Highlands of Wales and mayanders through England and empties into Bristol Bay. In any case, if we want to be completely well-rounded on the sovereign domain of the UK, you could include everything from the tropical beaches of Caribbean island territories like Anguila and Turks and Kicos. Moncerot Island actually had an enormous volcanic eruption in 1995 that destroyed the entire southern part of the island, including the former capital Plymouth. The South Georgia and South Sanwich Islands are the coldest parts of the UK's territories with permanent glaciers and protected wildlife breeding grounds. The South San which islands are pretty volcanically active too, especially Mount Belinda, Mount Curie and Mount Michael, which create an eerie sight of fire and ice when they erupt. In any case, these are all just examples that show the range of what you can naturally find in areas that fall within the sovereignty of the UK. Now despite being a nation smaller in area than the country of Guinea and West Africa, the UK today stands with the six largest national economy by nominal GDP in the world. We used to know five. Many factors attributed to this prosperity go as such as the Industrial Revolution, or the fact that we were an island isolated but not too isolated from continental Europe, with access to multiple naval trade routes that we dominated and protected. Now this is where I usually take my triple shot espresso break and no all fields in for the rest of the segment. However, since I'm here in the UK, I guess I'll have to switch things up and do an English breakfast tea break coming right up. Here you go, take this. Oh wow, this is a thing that you guys do. Shuga? You're getting tipped? That much. Okay. It's not bad. It's good, but like is there any way to make it stronger? It's a strong as it needs to be. Oh, he's fucking drinking it. I trust him. Yeah. I don't hate his much as I should. You hate it as much as, yes, America and UK join forces. All right, the UK. Let's get to it. Okay. Though historically, many of the parts that made up the UK followed some brutal and ineffective economic practices. For example, people were expected to stay and work in their home parishes, even if there was no work. Those that wanted off to find work elsewhere were deemed big abombs and if caught were subject to things like whipping or being put into stocks. Yeah, that didn't work out so well. Eventually, though, over time, many parts of what are now England fell into a system of mercantilism, or a policy that attempted to maximize tariff exports with quotas or minimizing imports. That kind of works, but as you know, most of the world hates tariff, so eventually they had to drop that system in 1840. The industrial revolution was without a doubt a game changer that launched the UK into global dominance. Things like the sewing machine, steam powered engines, and turbines, the telegraphs, revolutionizing, entire manufacturing system, were now things were made by machine instead of a hand. Every region had their distinct industry and resources. Newcastle focus on shipbuilding, romantious circadian, middle's bra, iron steel, Scotland, wool, and linen. Telegraphs could now send messages from the UK to India in hours. You could arrive through destination in a few hours via train instead of days by a horse and carriage. With this new advancement and advantages, the UK chains are strategy becoming a hegemonic naval powerhouse, while subsidizing and delegating specific regions for private trading companies to monopolize off of. For example, the muskowy company was in charge of trading with Russia. The East India company took over the Indian Ocean and the Hudson Bay Company was in charge of Canada. Granted, much of their economic activity was also riddled with labor from enslaved African peoples, even though it was never recognized in British law. Most of the about two and a half million people were transported to the Caribbean. The second most popular destination after Brazil to work on mostly sugar plantations between the 17th and 19th centuries. Eventually slavery was abolished in 1807 with the slave trade act. However, in practice it's still went on for over two more decades. Until the slave abolition acts was passed in 1833. Of course, this was a dark moment of history for the UK. Eventually those sugar plantations islands would gain independence in form of new nations like Jamaica, Barbados, and most of the lesser until these islands. Overall, you can see how the story of industrialization mixed with naval trade or key factors. And speaking of naval activity, you can occasionally find things like grey seals and basking sharks in the waters around the UK. And to talk more about the wildlife here's Gary Arlo. You look a lot like Caleb. All the back! You can't get rid of me and my amazingly accurate Aussie accent. So first, let's focus on Great Britain. Today there are 14 national parks, 9 in England, 3 in Wales, and 2 in Scotland. There aren't many large mammals found on the island. Today, the largest native mammal is the Red Deer. Most of the predators like wolves and bears were hunted to extinction centuries ago. Those bears can caps warn by the Queen's Guard, or actually made from Canadian black bear peels. As a temperate climate zone, reptiles are not very common. Only 3 native species of lizard exist and all snakes accept the European and are non-venomists. The national animals are the UK, all, make no sense. For England, it's the lion, which is not even native to the European continent, and alone the UK. Whereas for Scotland, it's the unicorn, and Wales is the Welsh dragon, which haven't been discovered yet. But I'm on it! Most people will say that the English bulldogs are very iconic animal that epitomises the British spirit. Otherwise, if we are discussing the overseas territory of Brought, the wildlife spectrum expands to a wide range that includes things like flamingos and iguanas, intercise and cacos, to elephant seals and macaroni penguins of the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. They are very popular breeding ground for various species. I guess I'll go back into the blackness now. I fade out. I'm scared of those, where I go, where will he go next? Thank you Gary, definitely not Caleb Marlow. Well, as you can see, the ocean has played a huge role in the UK story, whether it be the naval trading routes or the fishing industry. Two talk more about the food of the UK is one of our British younger peeps Rob. Hey, what's going on guys? So it's my section now. No, I'm coming for you. The Britain tends to have a reputation, particularly among the rest of Europe, for having dull bland flavourless food. But you know what? I'll send that's not the case. Now, it's just we enjoy more cozy food and we do have flavour. For one, the most popular dish in Britain by some distance is a curry. Most notably is the chicken teak masala, which wasn't even invented in India. Claim to be invented by Packaged Darnie in Glasgow. The dish when most particularly proud of has to be the forew English. You know, your breakfast, the eggs, your bean, bacon, sausage, black pudding, sheer tomatoes and mushrooms. Otherwise, some of the top dishes you might encounter on a visit to the UK are things like Yorkshire pudding, bangers and mash. Marmite, if you do put it on top of it, you've got to put it lightly. You can't overdo it. Lancashire hot pot towed in the hole. Well, sure, rare bit. Cornish pasties, Scotch egg, beef, Wellington, Shepherd's pie, steak and kidney pie. Pired mash with jelly diols, which is an East London Kotli delicacy. We love our meat pies. And of course, you can not visit the UK without having our most famous dish, fish and chip. Whitby is known for having some of the best fish and chips in the country. For dessert, you might want to try something like an eaten mess, baked well-tarts, sticky toffee pudding, trifle and so much more. I hope you guys can't have a bite. So you're in a UK, look out for a raw peatus. Thank you, Rob. Hey, you know what, you said it's coming for you. What are you saying? We'll see. Well, that's all I got for you all today. I will catch you on the next one. Back to you, Barb's and Jay. Thank you. That was awesome. You did a great job. We just had a whole section about British food and you didn't mention crumpets. Oh, I'll get your crumpet. Hang on, oh, oh, okay. This is a crumpet. Is that butter? Mm-hmm. I like butter. I approve. Uh, damn, I don't remember having a drink. No. Question is, what does it mean to be British? Simply beans on toast. A British person is a great sausage roll knowing the difference between a cheeky and a spint. Well, it's a Wales. We actually are a country. We have a language. It's the rugby, the communities and the sites, right? You killed an enn and gone wrong. Never had a war on the gig. Homebacad on the gallom. Ah, where on the line? Cambrian biff. For me, a Scottish person is someone who has broad thick accent is barely recognizable. I am blue. The proclaimer's still game, Hagas. This is our We Hell Anglain. For a little bit of this on the Saturday morning and I really should have a Sunday roast in a pub on Sunday. You can see someone of any background and everyone has a voice, everyone can say what they want. Bloody brilliance, acuying. We could be passively, aggressively, polite, someone who loves to complain about the weather. You're playing around the weather, playing about the football, even when they win. My thing I think that relates all British people is the fact that we created all these sports and yet we're so bad at all of it. Uniform. The bench is for the year six, fifth and sixth. Someone who cares very self-defracating. We love to take a piss. Kind of like licorice also. Everyone is mixed up with different things, but it's kind of like a big family that kind of argues with each other. So what is a person from the UK? Well, I mean, that question already in itself has a little bit of a title dilemma in it. Sometimes it's hard to even give a dominant for the people living here. And for many of the people and depending on the area, the title British might not even be considered applicable. Scottish and Welsh people will typically tell you that they are Scottish and Welsh first. People on the island of Manor. Banks and all those paying good in South Georgia are, but for what it's worth, there's so much that goes into the concept of the eye identity when you break down the typical person that comes from the UK is not an easy question to answer. But what we can attempt to break down is the ethnic makeup of the country in the demographic graph. Hence, fourth, let's do it. For one, the UK has just over 68 million people and as of 2022 and three is speculated to now have the third largest population in Europe just surpassing France. When it comes to ethnic makeup, it's a little complicated to come by. But according to the most recent data from the Office of National Statistics, it is reported that the largest group are the white British peoples at somewhere around 87% of the country. This category is pretty broad, however, the office designated white into subgroups of white British, which includes Scottish and Welsh, Irish, Irish traveler and whites of other nationalities. The remaining 13-ish percent are made up of other non-white ethnic backgrounds. The largest being Asian British peoples at somewhere around 7% of the country, the majority come from South Asian countries like India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. About 3% are black British, mostly from Caribbean and West African backgrounds and around 2% identify as ethnically mixed individuals and around 1% identify with other groups. The UK uses type G-plug outlet and they drive on the left side of the road and fun fact, it's because of the jousting thing I believe. Sort of. No one really knows why, but one theory is that when a medieval jousting happened used to hold a sword in your right hand, so it made sense to pass on the left. The majority of the UK uses the British-pronstirling as its currency, sometimes called quid. That's right. Except in certain overseas territories, they may use other regional currencies. And that brings us to another quirky aspect of the UK units of measurement. So, the UK was of course the birthplace of the famous imperial system, however, over the past few decades the UK has been begrudging a transitioning partially to metric. And the choice of units to use is absolutely insane. For example, speed, miles per hour. Temperature? Centigrade. For weight. If the subject is a person, you can use stone or pounds for everything else kilos and ground. For a distance. If it's long distance like on the road, we use miles unless if you're running that it's kilometers, but if measuring a person used feet and inches, any other object though meters and centimeters. For a volume. Leaders and milliliters, unless it's beer or milk when we use pints, but only cow's milk, not plant milk in which case they use pints, but pints through a little bigger than American pints. Yeah. That's a thing. That's a thing. Although there's technically no official language, the country's de facto national language is of course English, technically, modern English, which is incredibly different from old English. And during the 16th century, Shakespearean times an early version of the modern-style of English we know today started to evolve. Thank you Shakespeare. And as a course brings us to the famous British versus American English scenario. The spelling subtleties are minor, brids, tend to spell words that are more similar to their Latin and Germanic origins, whereas American spell things more phonetically. Otherwise, some words are just completely different such as apartment, flat, fries, chips, crisp, truck, Laurie, yes, petrol, cookie, biscuit, trash can, rubbish bin, yard, guns, sidewalk pavement, pavement, road surface candy, twain, faucet, tap, spigot, tap, flash light, torch, oatmeal, porridge, but I do admit I like porridge better because it reminds me of fairy tales from childhood. And I just try to say the word porridge and not being just a little bit more happy. porridge, it's like the goldie locks in the three-bin porridge, porridge. And don't even give me started on the accents. In fact, it's speculated that the UK has the largest variation of accents in a single language of any country in the world. Somewhere around 40 to 50 I believe. It is not. So if you think about just how small our islands are, and yet the accents have remained really resilient, the two cities of Liverpool and Manchester only 30 miles apart, they sound completely different. Otherwise, the UK also has regionally recognised native Celtic based minority languages. For example, Cornish, spoken in Cornwall by about four people, and Scottish Gareth is spoken in Scotland, and by far the biggest of these surviving Celtic languages is Welsh. They're even Welsh TV channels and shows radio stations and almost all road signs are posted in Welsh and English in Wales. Each of these languages play a vital role to the cultures of their respective communities. Religion! Now there's an interesting one because for most of the UK's history there's always been kind of like a complication when it came to religious affairs and leadership. After the church of England, we're now to pay for authority from the Catholic Church in 1534, things got tricky. It was kind of like, oh heavens, our dear monarch has dust, don't have died, who shouts to be if next in line. It's insert name of next two kin. But here's the problem. They can't flick. Jolly, totally one-calls. No! Let's burn things. That's the same to salt problems. Burn! And that's like how 28% of their domestic wars started. In any case, the country is technically a Christian country, actually it's technically a theocracy where the crown gets its power from God, long story, and a majority of them hold religion to more of a traditional role, mostly preserve foot national festivals, traditions, and even schools and politics. With all that sudden done, it's very important to also highlight the immigrant and non-European communities that make up a very notable demographic of the UK as well. The Black Community dates back to the 17th century when attendance and servants were brought over, such as John Blanketjür in the Tudor dynasty, who was paid about 16 pence a day for his trumpeting skill. Most of the enslaved Black people were brought to the Caribbean, not great Britain, so the Black British community stayed relatively small and was mostly confined to Liverpool. It wasn't until the mid-20th century when communities from the Caribbean and West Africa started to set up communities over here. The UK also has the oldest Chinese community in Europe arriving in the 19th century, followed by other Asian groups like Indians and Arabs. Basically, no matter who you are or what you are, everyone, born and raised in the UK will have a common understanding of a certain set of values and customs unique to the UK for one. The scoring system, you might have got hints of what it's like from the Harry Potter films and books. Uniforms are one not only to show school identity, but also to foster a sense of unity and equality. And you can't make one of the kids that we're bad clothes because it's like they're all wearing the same thing. Yeah, nobody can, well, you can still bully people. Also, like, which is not unclosed. Education is a huge part of our culture. English maths. That's right. Maths, not maths. You see maths. Maths. Maths. Maths. Maths. Maths. Maths. And science and even physical education are compulsory subjects for every stage until the GCSE exams and compulsory education ends at age 18. Yeah, and you have that college is another thing you guys at, but it's like you're right. So the word college is for older children. It's for teenagers who've chosen to study something very specific. Yes. Yeah. Whereas in America it's just you call college what we call a university. It's where we get wasted because we're saying we're studying but we're not. Another unique trait of the UK's social atmosphere is the fact that since it is a constitutional monarchy, much of the country has a deep tie to the traditions related to said monarchy. The end of the call of the Royal Family today has about 50 or so members that are either descended or married into the House of Windsor. Only that half of them actually carry out royal duties, which usually include diplomatic missions and being the face of the UK, whatever you want to make of that. Outside of the royal family, of course many noble men were appointed leadership roles over certain areas and today you can still even find many people that are descended from these lesser ranked individuals that had ties to the monarchs. Well, you can, but you have to go to the very posh public schools, which by the way is what we call what you call private schools. Right. You're like hits around into people who say, oh I'm actually 718 to 9 to the throne because my third father once removed was the 13th Duke and Duchess of Windom. Sometimes you'll find asked of the throne where you least expect it. For example did you know that Olympians are a Phillips is the Queen's granddaughter? No, I did not know that. But we can learn more about the sports of the UK with art, with the sports part. Sport part. The sport part. All right guys, I'm back. Let's get athletic. And the UK is quite the contender. They have nearly 1,000 medals in the Olympics and nearly 300 of which are gold. The UK is the father of many types of sports. Rugby, cricket, yes, even soccer or football. And hey, for all you brits that are criticizing us Americans for calling it soccer, we got the word from you. You invented it. It came from the word association football. So it's kind of your fault. Although the concept of playing a game where you kick a ball around has been around since the ancient times, the modern version of what we call football was started in the UK in the 19th century using inflated pig blatters. I wonder how they got started with that. They're just like, you're in some bacon and then they're like, oh that looks kind of inflatable. You know? So far England has won one World Cup in 1966 against West Germany. And it was in the iconic old Wendley Stadium that has since been torn down due to infrastructure and it was buried under a huge grass mound. Also the trophy was stolen but found by pickles the dog true story. Either way football is such a huge part of the UK's identity then they could talk about it forever. They even have a subculture of cooligins or the obnoxious football fans that like always get drunk and start fights and beat each other up. It's almost like a whole other sport itself and it's equally entertaining to watch like drunk in MMA, right? Oh yeah. Yeah. Otherwise the modern form of rugby or rugby union was invented in the town of rugby where it got its name from. However many will say rugby is actually descended from the Welsh game can happen which is why today some of the best rugby players come from Wales. It is a huge part of their national identity. Cricket was invented in South England in the 1500s and is one of the most long-winded sports that can last days to finish. Scotland is also a hub of inventing sports. The modern version of golf was also started in Scotland in the 16th century and water polo in the 19th century. Scotland is also most noted for their highland games where a bunch of people and killed compete in a series of strength-based events like the Caver Toss Scottish Hammer Throat and the weight over bar toss. Oh by the way I did a DNA test came back 48% Scottish. Thank you for your polish. Yeah so a lot less polish than what I thought. What? I mean it makes sense. Don't take me in. It makes sense the gingery. The ginger I'm Scottish. I should have known. In Northern Ireland it's not uncommon to see Gaelic football and Hurling being played native to the island. The UK is also known for their weird and wacky sports and competitions people loving taking part in such as the Cooper Hill cheese rolling race thing. Tar Barrel Racing, Toe Wrestling, Shin Kicking. Let's do that one. Pancake Racing, the Stinging Nettle eating contest. Yeah I used to get stunned by those things all the time when I was a kid like I cannot imagine eating those things. Gravy wrestling. These are weird. They even have a burning contest which is where like in order to win you have to make like the ugliest face possible like this. In any case that's all I got for you. Cheerio, Tudal Pop, Jolly Good, Crumbly Rinkles, Old Chap and whatever. I'm gonna get that. This ginger is gonna skid out a lot of here. Tudaloo. Thank you, Art. Jay what are some just of the biggest, most notable traditions you've experienced living here. The day after Christmas, we call it boxing day, the 20th of December. It's the extension of the holiday. So you get yet another day of work and there's also a football going on. A lot of great stuff on the telly. I thought those of you were you boxed each other because you're fighting over cheap prices at the grocery store. Actually fun fact the reason it's called boxing day is Barb. It was kind of right. Originally it was supposed to be about giving gifts to the poor but now it's about getting half of deals at the mall. Yeah boxing day. Okay well good way to transition into the culture of the UK and with that let's bring it to our home girl Hannah with the culture segment. Hey guys I'm back. Well actually now we're back. You don't get it I'm pregnant. Hannah did a thing. And Ian, he was there too. Okay this is gonna be a heavy one because with the UK it's almost like you're getting an economy sized, multi-packaged deal of culture and tradition. For one you must distinguish between whether someone is from England, Scotland Wales, Northern Ireland, the overseas territories or Crown Dependencies. To break it down a little easier you have the Celtic areas and then you have the Anglo-Sax inside. So let's start with a quick overview of Scotland. Cultural rule number one do not it's in the accent even if you think you're good at it. Just don't you know good at it. Historically Scotland was divided by plans each with their own territory. Each clan even had their own plaid tartan design. And Scottish last names often have a map before it. Some very notable cultural aspects you will probably encounter at some point include Cayley dances, bagpipes, January 25th is a huge deal with a celebrate Burn's Night. New Year's Eve is called Hogmanie, fireball swinging. And the first person to enter the household is considered the bringer of good luck. And the iconic New Year song Old Lang Sign. You know that song. Old Lang Sign. Who knew that's what they were saying. I was just making words of it. Also everyone in Scotland will tell you to try a deep-fried Mars bar as now Wales. Wales is a unique and very underrated place. It is the land of song poetry. But at the same time hard core rugby, shanky, king dragons and powerful castles. In Wales the death of Dill is a symbol used for women and the leak used for men. Typical emblems of the Daphidil are leaked are worn on Saint David's Day where people clean their rooms and are nice to one another. Are they not nice other days? See a one day year to be nice and speaking of which love spoons and Wales traditionally a man would carve a spoon and give it to the woman he loves. They have the Mari Lloyd celebration where they put a horse a school on a pole. The Don's Gum right? The estid fod is a huge deal. Every Welsh person will bring up Tom Jones. Moving on to Northern Ireland. This is a complicated one because it's kind of like if the UK and Ireland had a confusing baby that had not had any crisis. Avoiding all the complicated politics that go into this one. This area obviously has a more Irish Celtic influence and has a mix of Protestant Catholic people. This is the only place that allows people to freely choose to have either one or both citizenship of either the UK or Ireland. Keep in mind this is not the official flag of Northern Ireland just watch to show dairy girls. It does a great job covering the general idea of what Northern Ireland was like especially at the end of the conflict era. England is an itself super complicated and culturally diverse. It is home to the Monarchy which is a vital aspect of their identity. Keep in mind all those certain individuals can be knighted for their accomplishments. It is only a recognition. Not an inclusion and royalty. Generally speaking English regional cultures are mostly Anglo-Saxon based and concentrated in six areas. Speaking of which, England has the widest range of classical architecture. You can find people living in Tudor style half-temperature that's rooftop. Next to Victorian next to George and next to Art Deco all in the same block. Also the UK loves to give regional nicknames to people. Liverpool people, scowls, Birmingham, Arbromes, Manchester is make. Newcastle is Jordy. Sunderland is Macan, Devon and Plymouth folk are Janners. East Londoners are Cochney and they speak in a weird codified language. Much of what might be considered English culture was spurred off by the English Renaissance. The era created some of the most renowned authors and playwrights. Most notable, the man himself, William Shakespeare. As a nation, the UK was the home of many inventions and discoveries. Way too many people to mention, we'll just pop up a list here. Cinema has always been a huge part of UK culture and has been contributing to the world since 1888 when he first motion picture in the world was shot in Leeds by Louis Leoprins. Hey, Louis Leoprins was not pretty, she was French. I know I'm just saying he made his motion picture in the UK. Taco, do you have a new MMO? In you. The fact that the American version of the office was inspired by the UK version of the office and that is one of our most like well renowned television shows is amazing. I mean it's one of my favorite TV shows of all time. Honestly, I think we did better though. Come on. Kevin Malone, best character. Kevin Malone, our version of Dwight is way better than y'all. I'm so sorry. He really is. In any case, the territories and crown dependencies all have their own unique traits as well. Jersey and Gernsey and the Isle of Man each have their own languages and confusing political systems. In Gibraltar, people speak Yenido. The Pit Care and Islands has a Polynesian Creole called Pit Kern. Jersey and Kacos has a Caribbean house evolution vote party and the Cayman Islands haven't entirely dedicated to pirates. Well that was a lot and we didn't even cover a small fraction of everything that could be discussed with the UK culture. And of course, one huge facet of UK culture is their music and with that Keith is on tour. Can't leave his dream job to be here. So let's give this segment to a British musician. Guys, say hi to David. And we got David here. Explain where you are. It's your name yourself. I'm a music nerd from the UK and I have a channel called David Benett piano. Britain has always had a rich musical culture. We had the Elizabethian Lute music of John Downland, the Grand Broke Music of Handle and at the start of the 20th century we had two of Britain's host influential composers, Gustav Host and Edward Elgar. But it wasn't really until the 1960s that British music became the global cultural export that it is today. Of course, I'm talking about the British invasion where bands such as the Rolling Stones, the Kinks, the animals and of course the Beatles took the world by storm. And since that invasion, the UK has continued to contribute to global popular music. Many genres of music can trace the origins back to the UK. Heavy metal for example was pioneered in the early 70s by the likes of Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple. And many of pro-groxmost iconic bands held from the UK, including Pink Floyd, Yes and Genesis. Highly success artists have held from every corner of the UK. The most famous Welsh musician is probably Sir Tom Jones. Northern Ireland has Van Morrison and Scotland's most successful musician is probably Calvin Harris. Britain has always had a strong history of folk music as well, particularly in Scotland where gay-lic language music is still very popular with artists like Judy Faulis continuing the transition to that Queen, David Bowie, George Michael, Kate Bush, a racist elf and John Reddyhead music, Col played the Spice Girls Ed Sheeran, Adele ever since that British invasion in the 1960s the UK has not stopped churning out culture defining music and I'm sure it will play a major part in popular music for decades to come. Thank you David. Actually guys if you know, Jay is a musician. You make music as well. Sometimes. What are some of your biggest inspirations in music? Is it really really boring and dull and uninteresting if I say that my favorite band is the Beatles? Yeah, kind of does. Sorry. Be sick. Well, are we covered in so much in this segment, Jay? What else can we talk about in this episode? Shall we do the friends own? So obviously the UK has a lot of diversity and of course it's due to their history. As you can see, Britain has had a few dealings with other countries around the world which brings us to the animation, the motion graphic. First of all, as a permanent member of the UN Security Council and founding member of numerous IGOs such as the G7, NATO, World Trade Organization and Council of Europe, the UK has lots of international ties. Although the Brexit situation did cut them off from EU authority, many of the diplomatic laws and trade deals with the EU are almost exactly the same as they were pre-Brexit. And today the interaction is still there and open. It's just a little different when it comes to certain legislative issues like immigration and economic policy. This is a topic for another time. In any case, the UK has spent the last 100 years coming to terms with the fact that they were pretty much seen as the antagonist and so many independent stories across the world. Even though the empire has gone, its influence is still strongly felt around the world. With lots of other countries speaking English, playing cricket, having similarish systems of government and so on. Many of these countries are members of the Commonwealth of Nations, and the monarch is still at least in a figurehead sense, the head of state of many of them. The UK still has very close relations to the Commonwealth countries, with many of these people settling in the UK. Most notably some of the largest diaspora communities from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ghana and the Caribbean. The UK or England in particular had a massive rivalry with France riddled with war for much of their history. For the last century, though, especially after World War II, they've done a complete 180 and have found themselves on the same team in almost all global conflicts. And each side loves to poke fun, but in a loving way at each other. Interestingly enough, the country they probably have the most in common with, Ireland, has had quite a few scuffles in conflict, especially before the Good Friday agreement was signed in 1998. Today, however, you can't deny that the citizens of both countries enjoy an extremely close relationship. Many British people have Irish heritage, they enter merry quite a bit, and many have dual citizenship. Australia and Spain have the largest communities of British national residents living abroad. Australia has always been a hotbed destination for immigration for brids, seeking the warmer climate, and specifically for Spain. Ibiza is almost like a little Britain, as so many British people either go there on holiday or to move. In terms of their best friends, however, many in the UK would probably say the USA and maybe some might include Canada. The biggest differences between the two is that the USA gained full independence through revolution, whereas Canada just kind of stayed British until a slowly over time requested to be given more and more autonomy until technically 1982 when they adopted their own constitution, but still remained under the Commonwealth. It wasn't even long after the revolutionary war that the UK and USA quickly patched things up. Having a shared language and today a population with about 11% of its people, ethnically descended from British roots, has not only further helped them communicate and relate culturally, but eventually they've joined in almost all major international conflicts since the mid-19th century. Today they swap each other's films, TV shows, music and so on, and in Europe anything USA related will typically have some kind of connection to the UK as they kind of act as like the link between North America and Europe. Overall, the USA and UK may have started sour, but today they have never been closer. All right, and with that in conclusion, JUR, the Brit, I'm going to give this to you. In conclusion, sorry about the empire, but basically Britain is now finding its role as a modern progressive country that hopes to leave a good mark on the world. This flag actually makes me realise that when Brit's go abroad, even though we like to claim that we're not very patriotic, you know, we go abroad and it turns out yes we really are and we really care and we really do love our country and they hate when people fly their flag upside down! It isn't also backwards. Everything's wrong. Well, J, I think there was nobody better than you to be in this episode and the people who are holding me. Oh guys, I guess that means stay tuned. The home country USA is coming up next. Good luck!