 In 1994, physicist Miguel Alcubier wondered whether the fictional concept of a faster-than-light warp drive, such as the type depicted in Star Trek, could be described with the real physics of general relativity. Alcubier took Einstein's field equations, shown here, and did something rather unusual with them. Usually, one takes a set of masses and energies whose distribution is described within the stress energy tensor on the right-hand side, T mu nu, and then one calculates the corresponding curvature of space-time over here on the left-hand side. But Alcubier did the opposite. He started from a particular geometric structure, G mu nu, specifically in his case a warp bubble, and then solved the corresponding masses and energies needed to make it happen, T mu nu. His solution, often called the Alcubier Drive, has forever immortalized his name and spot dozens of follow-up papers further investigating this topic. However, it's not really a drive. There's no blueprint for a spaceship here. Perhaps a better name would have been an Alcubier Solution or a Field, but for whatever reason the name has stuck, and so I will use it throughout the rest of this video just for consistency. Alcubier Solution involves a central region where passengers would reside of ordinary flat space-time. Behind them, the fabric of space expands though and pushes the passengers forward, much like how the universe itself is currently expanding, thereby pushing galaxies apart from one another. Inside the bubble, the passengers can be stationary, yet the space within which they sit is moving, almost like an airport conveyor belt. So how do you warp space? Well, we already know that it's through mass, the same way that the sun bends space as Arthur Eddington proved in 1919. Here, a carefully engineered ultra-thin shell of material is used, much like an egg shell, that keeps space-time undisturbed both inside the bubble and far away from it, and yet it distorts space-time in just the right way around the ship. The real genius of this idea is that although mass cannot accelerate past the speed of light, space itself has no such rule, and thus this central region containing the passengers could travel at arbitrarily fast speeds. As exciting as it is, we need to take a beat, because the fact that a solution exists does not imply that an Alcubier drive is actually physically plausible, and yet general relativity does not forbid such a machine. And so, there was hope. However, this is one of those topics that get sensationalized out of hand here on YouTube, and it can be difficult to figure out just how legitimate this idea is. So today, let's go through six of the most prominent obstacles to realizing Alcubier's drive, coupled with some thoughts on how feasible it is that we could solve each of them. So join us for the complete guide to the Alcubier drive. Let's punch it. Problem 1. Energy and Mass Requirements One of the first complaints levied against the drive was that it required outrageous amounts of energy. For example, soon after Alcubier's paper, Fending and Ford estimated an engine requirement of something like 10 orders of magnitude greater than the mass of the observable universe. But in 1997, Chris van der Broek slightly modified the warp bubble shape to pull the energy down to just three solar masses. Okay, this is still a ridiculous amount of energy, but I remember reading those papers as a teenager and being incredibly inspired to become a physicist, because in the space of just three short years, pure human ingenuity had reduced the energy demand for a warp drive from 10 universes to just three stars. So imagine what might be possible with further refinement and research. Surely we could get this down to practical levels. Another issue is that the actual shell of material needs to be incredibly thin, typically approaching the plank length in width. The plank length is thought to be the smallest measurable length, and at this scale, the universe itself is believed to look more like a quantum foam where known physics breaks down. So how severe of a problem is this? Despite the currently incomprehensible challenge of humanity ever reaching this kind of technical level, as far as we can tell, physics does not prohibit it. And so I think we would have to classify this as an engineering challenge, just an engineering challenge of unimaginably high sophistication. Problem 2. Exotic Matter Whilst we're on the topic of energy requirements, there's one minor issue I forgot to mention. We need negative energy or interchangeably negative mass via equals mc squared. This was a problem recognized right from the outset of Alcubia's original work and technically violates a rule in general relativity known as the weak energy condition or WEC. That rule states that all time like observers must see a positive energy density. By the way, a time like observer here means one who always moves forward in time and experiences a natural flow of time similar to our own everyday experience of time passing. To give some credence to this violation, Alcubia himself even wrote his only warp dry follow-up paper 27 years later that supports and explores this violation in much more detail. Violating the weak energy condition implies the existence of negative energy or mass. Now, unfortunately, we don't know of any particle with negative mass, but physics also doesn't prohibit one either and hence such a particle would be described as exotic matter. The Kazimier effect is a well-known example of a negative energy pressure caused by the quantum vacuum effect between two very close plates and it has been the lifeline of hope for many warp optimists. However, it's important to note that this is really a negative relative to the background vacuum energy. If you took that vacuum energy away, there'd be no negative, so it's unclear whether this could be utilized for warping space. The widely held belief that Alcubia drives violate the weak energy condition was challenged in a trifecta of papers in 2021, coming from Bobrick and Martyr, Fellenheisenberg and finally, Eric Lentz. Whilst this confluence of timing might seem strange, it's worth remembering that this all happened around the time of the COVID-19 lockdown and Lentz stated in an interview that this is what he spent his lockdown working on. In that work, Lentz splits space-time up into many layers and then uses hyperbolic relations to model their rapidly evolving states, unlike what Alcubia did in 2017 who used a more linearized approach. His solution looks quite different, involving diamond-shaped regions formed by layers of rings and disks made of super dense fluids similar to the interiors of neutron stars. But before we get too giddy with excitement, not everybody agrees. Just last year, Jessica Santiago and colleagues pushed back that these papers are all mistaken. They argue that what these papers accomplished is to find a positive energy solution for one particular choice of observer, but the weak energy condition demands this to be true for all time-like observers. And indeed, they further conclude that all three of the proposals certainly do violate the weak energy condition when examined more carefully, and further, this is sadly a generic feature of warp drives more broadly. I want to note that Lentz disagrees with Santiago's rebuttal, but I think it's fair to describe this issue as controversial for the moment, and so we may be back to clinging onto some kind of chasm-like effect for any kind of hope here. As you can tell, the literature on warp drives is surprisingly extensive, and of course this is just one small topic within general relativity, physics, and science more broadly. It's easy to feel overwhelmed by all of the things that we wish that we had the time to learn and read in our all too short and fleeting lives, but fortunately that is where the sponsor of today's video can come to the rescue, Blinkist. If you struggle to finish non-fiction books, need good recommendations, or simply don't have enough time to read everything that you want, Blinkist is a professional book summary service that allows you to grasp their key concepts called Blinks in just 15 minutes or less. A recent highlight for me was Uncharted by Margaret Heffernan, who explores the inherent unpredictability of the future, the value of scenario planning both for corporations and in our own lives, and the role of cathedral projects like CERN that can span generations. There's also a Blinkist Spaces, where you can share books with families and friends, even if they don't have a premium subscription. So I think this is a really cool product. You can get started with a 7 day free trial and then 25% off the Blinkist annual premium package using my promo link down below in the description. Thank you to Blinkist for sponsoring Cool Worlds today. Problem 3. The Horizon Problem Soon after Alcubierre's paper, Sergei Krasnikov pointed out that the occupants of the ship would have no way to control, steer, or stop the vessel, or indeed interact with the outside world in any way. An observer located at some initial time cannot affect points outside of their future light cone, which would be required to affect the front of the bubble. Photons produced by the crew, say in an attempt to interact with the front side of the bubble, would simply pile up as they approach and remain at rest relative to the bubble's motion, never quite reaching the front. The consequences of this are fairly profound. Anyone or anything inside a warp bubble cannot control or indeed even create the warp bubble in the first place. After all, any energy field they create inside here cannot reach the front of the bubble, which of course where it needs to be to create the bubble in the first place. This situation is analogous to the concept of horizons in cosmology. If one passed through the event horizon of a black hole, there is no way that one can ever interact with the universe outside that. And so this is why the problem here has often been labelled as the horizon problem. This problem suggests that an FTL, Alcubierre Drive, is not realisable as an isolated entity. We would always need some pre-existing infrastructure built ahead to enable this kind of travel. Like an interstellar highway, we'd need some kind of gigantic tube with negative energy field generators located all the way along it that turn on at just the right moment to create the bubble effect. Perhaps like the huge energy requirements issue we discussed earlier then, we might generously describe this as an engineering problem rather than a fundamental obstacle posed by physics. Problem 4. Radiation As if the horizon problem was not worrisome enough, it unfortunately culminates in another issue though, radiation, explored in a recent paper by McMonagall and colleagues. Imagine a photon happily going along its way through the universe when from the rear, the FTL Alcubierre Drive catches up to it. Like a snowplow, the photon gets caught in the front of the bubble and dragged along at FTL speeds. Curiously, if we replace the photon with a near-light speed particle or even an astronaut, they would become time-locked for the duration of the warp flight, frozen in place and experiencing very little time passage. Unfortunately, when the ship eventually stops its destination, all of the particles that got caught in that front scoop suddenly get released and they do so with far more energy thanks to the bubble's motion. The energy dump is so huge that it's sufficient to completely obliterate entire planets which, let's face it, I don't think is quite how Picard imagined rocking up for those peace negotiations. Of course, this danger could be mitigated by simply stopping outside of the target system and then continuing the rest of your journey at sub-light speeds, so this problem hardly prohibits the warp drive as a concept. Something much more concerning is what goes on inside the warp bubble. As a horizon, Hawking radiation will be generated due to quantum pair production effects along the rim of the bubble. Fennasi and colleagues investigated this in 2009, showing that the radiation will have a thermal temperature set by the surface gravity of the warp bubble shell, which, recall, has a width approaching that of the Planck length. As a result, the thermal flux instant upon the ship and her crew is of order of the Planck temperature, astagering 10 to the 32 Kelvin, a temperature not seen since the Big Bang itself. Fennasi concludes that this leads to a completely unstable system and the warp bubble would almost immediately collapse as soon as it was created. This seems to be a very severe problem and the only hope I can see here is that an alternative warp bubble metric can be one day found that reduces the Hawking temperature dramatically. Problem 5. The Chicken and Egg Problem A series of papers have argued that a fatal flaw with the idea of a superluminal warp drive is that one needs one to make one a catch-22 situation. The Alcubier metric, G-Mu-Nu, is a warping of space, but even if one achieves this warp bubble, that does not equal a superluminal warp drive. In 1998, Kohl argued that in order for the space-time geometry G-Mu-Nu to be moving superluminally, the matter distribution inducing it to Mu-Nu must first also be moving superluminally. This conclusion was also supported later by Chris van der Brug, who clarified that at least some of the exotic matter must be moving faster than light.