The problem is that in order to cause the required warping around this inner protected region of flat space-time, some of the exotic matter must necessarily be outside of that inner region, and all matter outside of that inner region must move slower than the speed of light. The effect of this is that part of the necessary exotic matter will not be able to keep up with the rest of the bubble. If somehow we did get a bubble that was moving superluminally, the outer shell would be left behind and thus destroy the warp effect. Kohl seemed surprised that Alcubier was unaware of this issue, and van der Brug even states that Alcubier space-time is an example of what can happen when the Einstein equations are run in the wrong direction. However, van der Brug speculates that it might be possible to get around this problem by allowing the distribution of exotic matter to expand and fan out into a tail at the back, almost like an exotic matter contrail, but it's unclear whether this is even possible. In the most recent paper along these lines, Bobrick and Martyr highlight that the majority of the literature generally assumes that the required curvature of space is already moving superluminally, which again raises the question as to how that could be caused without some matter distribution, T-mu knew that was already superluminal. Indeed, in a 2021 interview with Scientific American, Bobrick says, none of the physically conceivable warp drives can accelerate to speeds faster than light. Is there a way to save the Alcubier drive from this problem? One obvious solution is just to surrender the idea of FTL travel and stick to subluminal warp drives. In this case, there's no catch 22 since we can already in principle accelerate objects to any sublight speed we want. Another solution is to surrender the idea of a self-contained ship and certainly alternatives to the Alcubier drive do exist, such as the continuous tube of warp spacetime proposed by Sergei Krasnikov and similarly we have the Einstein-Rosen Wormhole concept, topics that I'm happy to get into in a future video. But the point is that in either case, our current understanding here prohibits the idea of a self-contained faster than light warp drive. Problem 6. Causality The final problem I'll discuss is causality violations, which really means that the warp drive can create closed time-like curves, CTCs, that is to say, backwards time travel. The problem here is that such a machine could potentially create paradoxes, such as the famous Grandfather paradox, where one uses a warp drive to go back, kill one's grandfather and thus meaning that you could not have travelled back in the first place since you were never born. Bizarrely, general relativity does not forbid backwards time travel, but it seemingly breaks down the predictive capacity of physics and makes many of us deeply uncomfortable. Stephen Hawking suggested that it was indeed impossible because of his famous chronology protection conjecture, arguing that whenever one attempted to use a time machine, quantum effects would prevent this from actually happening and would somehow destroy the time machine or prevent the paradoxes from forming. Hawking's conjecture was an idle speculation, but grounded from a strong mathematical argument concerning feedback. Like putting a microphone too close to a speaker, the same signal can whip around many, many times, increasing in intensity exponentially and ultimately destroying the time machine. So how does a warp drive lead to time travel? First, this is not some sort of time dilation effect, since by construction the passengers can actually be at rest in their own little inner protected pocket of flat space-time. The time travel effect here is a subtle and complex topic which deserves its own video, and fortunately we've already made that video which you can find up here. To try and keep things simple, that video shows why FTL violates causality in the framework of special relativity, but the manifestation of closed time-like curves occurs even in general relativity, as proved by Alan Everett in 1996 soon after Alcubierre's original paper. I think there is a lot of confusion about this topic, but I want to emphasise that Alcubierre himself acknowledges that his drive is a time travel machine. For example, he says so as much in a recent interview over on Event Horizon with friend of the channel, John Michael Godier. Similarly, he stated in his ledger slides on the topic, beware, in relativity any method to travel faster than light can in principle be used to travel back in time, a time machine. Further, he included a derivation proving this point in his 2017 follow-up paper, and he has stated the same thing on Twitter in interactions with other scientists. So sadly, yes, our current understanding is that closed time-like curves appear to be an unavoidable feature of FTL travel. However, that does not necessarily rule out the possibility of a warp drive. For one, Hawking's conjecture could be wrong, I mean it is improved, or perhaps it's something more like the Novikov self-consistency principle which we've explored in a previous video on time travel. Alcubierre himself has pointed out that even if Hawking's conjecture holds, the warp drive might still be possible though since one doesn't necessarily have to use it as a time machine even though yes, in principle, one always could. Indeed, perhaps it's only in cases where you attempted to use the drive in this nefarious way that the conjecture comes into effect, perhaps instilling some kind of quantum feedback effect that destroys your warp bubble. It's difficult to imagine practically how this would work, so I remain skeptical this is a way out here, but perhaps it provides a glimmer of hope to some of you. So there you have it. Six problems that stand in the way of an Alcubierre drive. For some, like the energy requirements and horizon problem, we can perhaps argue that these are merely engineering issues, but for others, the problems are more fundamental, such as enormous radiation levels violating both causality and the weak energy condition and a catch-22 problem. Interestingly, almost all of these problems go away when dealing with sub-luminal warp drives, which would still be a remarkable achievement where the rate of time passage could even be controlled within the bubble itself. For me, I take two things away from Alcubierre's drive. The first is inspiration. I may not have even ever become a physicist, was it not for his paper, and I think many others feel similarly inspired, but not just by his work, but by the many papers that followed incrementally improving the model and also revealing the fundamental problems with the concept itself. His idea is an intellectual playground that we can't help but have fun with. The second takeaway is that the challenges here are so formidable that it seems highly unlikely anyone will ever build one on Earth or even beyond. To make it happen requires multiple new physical possibilities to be revealed that all fortuitously work in just the right way that we need for this to be possible. It's frankly akin to hoping for magic at this point, but magic that just so happens to work in the way that you hoped it would. To some, that might seem depressing, but the truth is that interstellar travel is perfectly possible without a warp drive. It just comes at the cost of relativity, like time dilation effects or simply a lot of patience. But looking for shortcuts, tricks, and cheat codes to the universe might yet reveal a way for us to touch the stars one day, and Alcubierre's work will surely be remembered as one of the most audacious and exciting ideas along those lines. So let's keep looking for those opportunities, those loopholes, and as always, stay thoughtful and stay curious. Thanks again for watching.