 Hi, my name is Marques Brownlee, and I have not paid for electricity in a year. I have a bunch of electrical appliances, computers, game console, TVs, air conditioning, and I drive an electric car to and from work every single day and charge at home. Zero dollar bill. So I know I had a lot of questions about how this stuff worked, how much it costs, how much it generated, a whole bunch of that stuff before I got started, and now I finally have all the answers. Let's get into it. So I have had solar panels on my roof at home for the past 12 months now, and I waited this long specifically because now I've seen all four seasons, and I've observed a wide variety of performance, and I've run all the numbers, and I have a lot of thoughts about them. So I want to share them. So first of all, for those familiar, there are a lot of options for solar systems at home. I like that they're called solar systems too. But there are a lot of different companies who make solar systems to power all the electrical needs of a home, including an electric car. So I know I wanted to do this for a while since the whole point for me was to be able to drive electric for the foreseeable future and actually be able to know that the energy is coming from a sustainable source, the sun. But first, it's actually important to understand that a big part, a big part of this solar system is batteries as well. So a normal house is connected to the electrical grid. And whenever something in the house, whether it's a light bulb or a computer or an appliance calls for electricity, it pulls from the grid and spins up a meter on the side of the house that tallies how much you've pulled, then at the end of the month, you get billed for how much electricity you've used. Great. Now, if you just add solar panels to this house, when the sun shines during the day on those tiles, it can use that electricity to directly power things in the house. Now, of course, if it's cloudy or if you have a bunch of stuff on all at once, and the demand is more than the power from the sun is providing, then it'll pull the rest of what it needs from the grid and spin the meter as well. But most importantly, as soon as the sun goes down, the electricity generated goes to zero. And it just so happens that most people come home from work as the sun is going down. And that's when they turn on all the lights and do the laundry and charge the car, etc. So you're still going to be pulling from the grid for most stuff. Now, that's actually fine for most people, because if the goal, which a lot of people's goal is, is to have a zero dollar electricity bill, then this can actually be accomplished because the power company will hopefully, depending on where you live, but ideally be running something called net metering. So what this means is when the sun shines on the roof and excess electricity is being generated because nobody's home, the house actually spins the electrical meter backwards as it sends extra electricity back to the grid. Then when the sun goes down and you get home and use a bunch of electricity from the grid, the meter spins back forwards. And so ideally, the total usage is zero, net zero. That's how you end up with the zero dollar electricity bill, which is super cool. But what if you want to sort of graduate to the next level of sustainability? What if you want to be completely independent of the grid, totally off the grid? Well that's when batteries come in. So add battery storage to this system and now the loop is complete. So when the sun shines during the day and you're not home, it fills up the batteries, effectively storing sunshine energy. And then when you get home and the sun goes down, you can keep using that extra solar energy that you stored with all the electrical needs that you have until the next morning when the sun comes out again and starts filling up those batteries again. So with a system like this, you can theoretically not just have a zero dollar power bill, but never actually pull from the grid at all. You're completely self-sustainable. You never have to worry about a power outage ever again. You won't even know if a power outage happens. That is the off the grid dream. Theoretically anyway, at the beginning of this process, that was my goal. So there is a lot of different options for solar system setups for different solar tile manufacturers and different battery manufacturers and different companies that will install all these things. There's a thousand different combos that you could piece together with different companies, with different offers in your area to make something that works. I kind of went with kind of a crazy, but also a made sense solution, which is just one company for everything, which would be Tesla. So it is a Tesla solar roof, Tesla power walls for batteries, and then the Tesla app to monitor and control everything. And really the main reason I went this route was for simplicity and integration. This I paid a price premium for this. This was not the cheapest option. You can spec a much cheaper combo of solar panels and batteries and things like that, but just to have everything on the same page and have everything talking to each other seamlessly, this made the most sense. So then once I decided to go with Tesla, then the other choice you might've heard about is either solar panels bolted to the roof or these actual solar tiles, which are new roof tiles that are actually hundreds of tiny solar panels themselves, all interconnected to make a normal looking roof that's actually a giant solar panel. And that is the one that I went for. And this is why I say this was a crazy option because I did not actually need a new roof. Most people who go with the solar tiles option would either have an old roof that needs replacing soon, or they're like about to build a new house and this will be the new roof that they put on it. I wasn't in either of those situations, but also this was the way to get by far the largest total array with the most coverage, with as many pitches as my roof has. And also aesthetically, it looks really good too, I gotta say. There's curb repeal. Either way, I make my decision, I'm going with the solar roof, I'm going Tesla's full integrated setup. From there, I'm not gonna lie, it is quite a process. There is a lot of paperwork and hoops to jump through. Also with Tesla's, they've been kind of in and out of reliability. Like over the years, they've been on and off with actually making this product. They paused installations for a while, it was briefly canceled, and then it came back and there were supply chain issues. I remember reading about all this and I was kind of worried, but for whatever reason, when I ordered, which was in 2021, basically everything went perfectly smooth as well as it could have gone. You get assigned a Tesla advisor just like for your project, for your solar project. They walk you through the whole process from the paperwork with the town from beginning to end. There's an ordering process, inspection, a measuring process, quotes, filling out paperwork with the town. You actually, when you're first trying to get an estimate, you actually submit your address and they go look on Google images and look at your roof with satellite imagery and give you an initial quote. Then once you're locked in and you decide you want to go through with it, they'll actually come to your home with professionals and actually measure it and then give you a precise real quote and then start to order all the materials. You eventually get to the point where you get an install date, you start scheduling things out, and then they come through with all the boxes of solar panels and they took up my whole driveway for a couple of days. There are people who have actually walked through this entire process in great detail. I'll try to link a good one below on YouTube, but at the end of the day, for me, the process I started when I signed the purchase agreement, which was in November, 2021, and finished with the activation of the system in July, 2022. So eight months, but now that it's done, uh, we get to nerd out about the numbers. Sorry in advance to anyone who doesn't like numbers. I feel like that's really the only way to explain how good it is and what's happening with them. So there's about to be a lot of them. Let's get into it. So first of all, the specs, right? So this is a 29.313 kilowatt solar array size. Your boy's got a big roof. And then there are three Powerwall threes, which totals 40 and a half kilowatt hours. And then this is the Tesla app where all of the learnings and all of the numbers happen. When the system first got activated, I just remember like seeing it light up in the app for the first time, the numbers jump up and just kinda, you just kinda get, I could stare at the app for a while. Like I could really get lost in the numbers. Maybe it's just cause I'm a numbers person, but there's a lot going on and that's, it was exciting to see it all in real time and learn a lot of stuff. So I think the app is really well done and it lets you visualize how much energy the solar array is currently capturing, how much energy the home is using and the state of charge and power output or input of the Powerwall batteries. And then of course, anything happening with the electrical grid. So you can see at this exact moment in time on a sunny morning in July, the panels are bringing in seven kilowatts of power, five of which are powering the house. The last two of which are going into the Powerwalls, which are 38% full and it's not touching the grid at all. There's already a lot of terms being thrown around here. Here's a good way of thinking about it. Kilowatts is a measure of power. So one kilowatt is a thousand watts. A kilowatt hour though, is a unit of energy collected. So a Tesla Model S battery, for example, is a hundred, roughly a hundred kilowatt hours. And so if that battery were to output a hundred kilowatts for an hour, then it would be at zero. So if you look it up, the Powerwall three, each one is about 13 and a half kilowatt hours each. So that totals 40 and a half kilowatt hours since I have three and they support a maximum power output in or out of 15 and a half kilowatts. And then the solar system being 29.3 kilowatts means that basically it seems like the theoretical maximum of the electricity that can be collected at any one time is 29.3 kilowatts. But as you're about to see a little bit later, that number may or may not be accurate. Either way, just hanging out in the Tesla app for a while, which you do a lot for the first few weeks, I learned a lot. I learned a lot about what takes a lot of energy, what takes a little bit of energy. Some of it, which did surprise me. I also learned that sort of the basic like existence level for this house is like 400 watts of power just because things are plugged in. Even if every light is off, it just sort of sits around 400 watts, but you know, charging a phone or turning on a light or something like that basically doesn't make a dent at all. It doesn't show up in the app. Turning on a TV might only take about a hundred watts or 0.1 kilowatts. A computer can pull three to 500 watts if it's taking a lot of power. But surprisingly, the big spikes come from the microwave and the toaster for sure. But the two absolute biggest draws of electricity in this house by far, and I think probably with a lot of others, are number two, air conditioning. And number one by a country mile is charging the electric car. I think the best way to look at this is actually by seasons. So like I said, the system got activated in July. So in the middle of the summer. So a typical summer day in New Jersey is pretty awesome for a solar customer. The days are long. We get a lot of sun. It's great. This is what a summer day looks like in the app. And this is a pretty good day for solar. So you can see the sunrise is around 6 a.m. The peak is around noon and then this drop off till sunset around 8 to 9 p.m. It's a lot of sun.