Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
Witnesses discussed their personal experiences with encounters of unidentified aerial phenomena (UAPs). They described the lack of transparency, reporting procedures, and fear of retaliation in relation to UAP encounters. Witnesses mentioned specific characteristics of UAPs, such as dark gray or black cubes inside a clear sphere. They also discussed incidents at Vandenberg Air Force Base and provided details on the speed, G-forces, and appearance of UAPs. One witness claimed to have direct knowledge of non-human origin craft and unsanctioned advanced technology programs. Witnesses also suggested the potential involvement of the US government in a disinformation campaign. They emphasized the importance of transparency, accountability, and the role of NASA and the scientific community in investigating UAPs. In addition, witnesses shared specific incidents and encounters with UAPs, including instances where UAPs caused harm to humans and disabled sensor and collection systems on aircraft. They called for a change in reporting culture and stressed the importance of secure facilities to share classified information. Witnesses recommended comprehensive analysis of UAPs, meeting with experts in secure compartments, and obtaining radar and photographic evidence for further examination. Finally, one witness mentioned the need to call in specific individuals and agencies to address questions related to UAPs.

We're going to give three people a chance at an additional three minutes. So Mr. Burchett, do you want to keep going? Why don't you come back to me, Mr. Chairman? I'd like to submit for the record an article by News Nation, and it follows Mr. Grush's full interview for the record. Without objection. Thank you. Mr. Grush, why is it that you refer to the phenomenon as non-human intelligence? Why deviate from the basis of extraterrestrial life? I think the phenomenon is very complex, and I like to leave an open mind analytically to specific origin. When you say specific origin, are you referring, can you elaborate on that for those that might want to know? If it's a traditional extraterrestrial origin or something else that we don't quite understand from either a biological or astrophysics perspective, yeah, I just like to keep an open mind on what it could be. Yeah. Referring to your News Nation interview, you had referenced specific treaties between governments. Article 3 of the Nuclear Arms Treaty with Russia identifies UAPs. It specifically mentions them. To your knowledge, are there safety measures in place with foreign governments or other superpowers to avoid an escalatory situation in the event that a UAP malevolent event occurs? Yeah, you're referring to actual public treaty in the UN register. It's funny you mention that. Yeah, the Agreement on Measures to Reduce the Risk of Outbreak of Nuclear War signed in 1971, unclassified treaty publicly available. And if you cite the George Washington University National Security Archives, you will find the declassified in 2013 specific provisions in the specific red line flashed message traffic with the specific codes pursuant to Article 3 and Article, also Situation 2, which is in the previously classified NSA archive. What I would recommend, and I tried to get access, but I got a wall of silence at the White House, was those specific incidents when those message traffic was used. I think some scholarship on that would open the door to a further investigation using those publicly available information. Thank you. And then my last question with 51 seconds remaining. You mentioned white-collar crimes potentially being, taking place in regards to a cover-up. Can you please elaborate? I have concerns based on the interviews I conducted under my official duties of potential violations of the federal acquisition regulations, the FAR. Thank you very much. Chairman, I yield the remainder of my time. Okay, we'll go to Mr. Raskin for three minutes. Thanks, Mr. Chair. I thank the witnesses for their endurance and service today. Mr. Fravor, you've described your episode in detail now, and you call it the most credible UFO sighting in history. I wonder, was this the first time that you encountered a UFO or a UAP in 2004? Yes. And what was your general attitude or perspective on the UFO discussion before that happened? I never felt that we were alone with all the planets out there, but I wasn't a UFO person. I wasn't watching History Channel and MUFON and all that. And have you had experiences or encounters since that happened? No. And so, have you formed any general conclusions about what you think you experienced then? Yes. I think what we experienced was, like I said, well beyond the material science and the capabilities that we had at the time, that we have currently, or that we're going to have in the next ten to twenty years. Very good. Mr. Grush, you've been able to answer in great detail on certain questions, and then other things you say you're not able to respond to. Can you just explain where you're drawing the line and what's the basis for that? Yeah, based on my DOPSER security review and what they've determined that is unclassified. I see. So you're answering any questions that just call upon your knowledge of unclassified questions, but anything that relates to classified matters you're not commenting on in this context? In an open session, but happy to participate in a closed session at the right level, yeah. Okay. And Mr. Graves, you said that there are dozens of fellow pilots, military pilots. Are there also commercial pilots who've encountered the same kind of sightings that you described before? They are similar. Commercial pilots have less range and less sensors to be able to reach out and look for objects over a wide swath of airspace. And so pilots are seeing them, commercial pilots are seeing them, and they're typically closer and the range of what they're seeing is pretty large. What is the most vivid concrete sighting with the naked eye of the objects that you described before, the cube-like objects? Certainly. I think the most vivid sighting of that would have been near midair that we had at the entrance to our working area. One of these objects was completely stationary at the exact entrance to our working areas, not only geographically, but also at altitude. So it was right where all the jets are going, essentially, on the eastern seaboard. The two aircraft flew within about 50 feet of the object, and that was a very close visual sighting. And you were in one of the aircraft? I was not. I was there when the pilot landed. He canceled the mission after, and I was there. He was in the ready room with all his gear on, with his mouth open, and I asked him what the problem was, and he said he almost hit one of those darn things. He said he was 50 feet away from it? Yes, sir. His description of the object was consistent with the description you gave us before? A dark gray or a black cube inside of a clear sphere. Inside of a clear sphere? Yes, sir. And with no self-evident propulsion system? No wings, no IR energy coming off of the vehicle, nothing tethering it to the ground. And that was primarily what we were experiencing out there. I'm over time. Thank you very much for your service, and I yield back to Mr. Chairman. Very good. Mr. Burchett? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is for all three of y'all, starting with Mr. Grays. Why did you come forward on this issue? I came forward because I felt that my colleagues did not have a way to mitigate the safety threat, and I wanted to help them. I was trained as an aviation safety officer by the Navy, and this seemed, it just felt right. I felt like I had to help the folks that were still flying and dealing with this. Mr. Grush? Purely a sense of duty, my first sworn oath when I was a cadet 18 years ago, and I still uphold that even out of the uniform. Commander? I was pestered by a friend, and I asked why, and he said, you're the one person that they can't discredit, and you'll add credibility to the New York Times article, and so after about six times, I said, okay. This town isn't made, unfortunately, by people like y'all. We thank y'all, and I do want to also thank the people in the audience and the people that are watching this that can't be, people all over the world that have kept this issue alive. You've endured criticism and derogatory remarks, and we're trying to get to the bottom of it, and so God bless y'all. Thank y'all so much. We really appreciate you guys and gals. That's why we need term limits. Y'all keep clapping, those politicians just keep talking, so. Let me ask y'all, how can the public contribute to UAP reporting, and what avenues you think are available to the public to report these sightings? Well, right now, I don't think there is a lot of public options for every man to be able to report on this. I think even for professionals that have sensor data, that are seeing these on a regular basis, they're still hesitant to come forward, and so for the general public, I think encouraging the conversations that we're having today, looking for technology solutions that can be distributed, so that objective data can be gathered, is the first place to go. Mr. Goresh? I'll just touch on the whistleblower side of it. I do encourage, you know, current and former military, intelligence community, and industry contractors to come forward in a legal way, either through the IC or DOD or whatever the cognizant IGs are, to lead, you know, join me in this discussion. Commander, and I guess I should say this, for the record, my daddy was United States Marine Corps, 1st Marine Division, so. Hoorah. Yes, sir. He was old school, him and Chesty Puller on Peleliu, so thank you, brother. Wow. Yes, sir. I'm not, I'm not anything like my daddy. He was incredible. I'm very mediocre, to say the least, but go ahead. You seem to be doing fine. Yeah. For me, you know, I was an accident investigator, so the biggest thing that you learn, and I think that witnesses need to do is, one, don't try and make the fish bigger than it was. Stick to the facts, write it down, and don't speculate what you think it is, because it will sway your decision. Just write the facts down. We can get all the facts together, and we can start to investigate and get a real honest story instead of, it was this big. Thank you, Allen. I want to thank everybody. We made history today. Mr. Chairman, I yield. Thank you much, Mr. Garcia. Thank you. I know now we're going to be making some closing remarks, and so I just wanted to say a few things. First, to our witnesses, I want to thank all of you for being here with us today. I know that it takes a lot of courage. You're telling really important information to this committee, and I just want to thank you also for all three of you, your service to our country. I also want to just note that today's hearing was both important but also serious, and I want to thank our subcommittee chairman, Mr. Groffman, I think, for running a very fair and substantive hearing. I do want to thank the committee staff on both sides for the amount of work that it took to put this hearing in place, and certainly to all the members that have been involved in this issue prior to the hearing. I also want to note for our witnesses and for the public that I'm a freshman member of Congress, and I've only been here for seven months, but this is by far the most bipartisan conversation and discussion that I have seen happen in the Congress, and I think that a topic of this significance as it relates to our national security, as it relates to information that we're trying to gather for the American public, does bring people together, and I think that's been really great to see. I think it's also important to note for the public, today in our hearing we had on our side also both our full ranking member, which is Mr. Raskin, and our vice ranking member, which is Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, both here at our hearing. I think it shows the importance and seriousness that our side of the aisle is taking to this important hearing, but also the broader issue as it relates to working with our Republican counterparts on this committee. I want to additionally add that I think, and I encourage, I think it's really important that we have and continue these discussions and these hearings. Clearly, there's a lot of information that we don't know, but it's also very clear that we have to continue our investigation and accountability on asking the right questions and ensuring that they're part of the public record. One thing that was important today is some folks might wonder, you know, why are we asking questions that might already be out there or that have been asked before? It's important that they're asked and put into the public record as it relates to this committee. And so I want to thank you for, you know, answering some questions multiple times, I know, not just in maybe meetings you had with some members, but also here in the public. Let me also just add an additional note that it's important also that our friends in the media and those that are not just reporting on this hearing, but that have reported on this topic and that may in the future, the media has an important role in this process. And it's very important that the media engages, does independent investigation and reports on not just what happened today, but what they see independently as what is happening around UAPs in the broader community. That is also an important public benefit that we have in trying to get the information and the facts as it relates to this. Let me also just say finally that as a teacher and an educator and a longtime teacher and researcher that I also really believe in following facts, in doing your homework, and making sure that you follow science as we try to get as much information as possible. And so I want to thank you all for agreeing to do that today. Transparency is a cornerstone of government. We live in a vast galaxy, a lot of unanswered questions. And thank you all for being here today. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'd like to one more time thank Mr. Burchett and Ms. Luna for bringing this to our attention.