Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
In this chunk of text, the witnesses discuss the need for transparency, reporting procedures, and the fear of retaliation for coming forward with UAP encounters. They mention the characteristics of the UAPs they've seen, such as dark gray or black cubes inside a clear sphere. The witnesses also discuss their experiences with UAPs, including the size, behavior, and lack of understanding of the technology behind them. They talk about incidents at Vandenberg Air Force Base, the speed, G-forces, and appearance of the UAPs. One witness mentions having direct knowledge of non-human origin craft and unsanctioned advanced technology programs. They also discuss satellite imagery and the potential involvement of the U.S. government in a disinformation campaign. The witnesses emphasize the importance of transparency, accountability, and the role of NASA and the scientific community in investigating and researching UAPs. Partnerships between the scientific community and UAP focus groups within the government are also mentioned as necessary for further collaboration.

Comer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me say I want to thank you for having this hearing. I want to thank Mr. Burchett, Ms. Luna for leading this hearing. And with that, I yield by five minutes to Mr. Burchett. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to direct this, I believe, to Mr. Grush. But if any of you all feel like you need to jump in, just jump right in. We're good. Has the U.S. government become aware of actual evidence of extraterrestrial, otherwise unexplained forms of intelligence? And if so, when do you think this first occurred? I like to use the term non-human. I don't like to denote origin. Keeps the aperture open, both scientifically. Certainly, like I've discussed publicly previously, 1930s. Okay. Can you give me the names and titles of the people with direct firsthand knowledge and access to some of this crash retrieval, some of these crash retrieval programs, and maybe which facilities, military bases that would, the recovered material would be in? And I know a lot of Congress talked about, we're going to go to Area 51 and, you know, and there's nothing there anymore anyway. It's just, you know, and we move like a glacier. As soon as we announce it, I'm sure the moving vans would pull up, but please. I can't discuss that publicly, but I did provide that information both to the intel committees and the inspector general. And we could get that in the SCIF if we were allowed to get in a SCIF with you. Would that be probably what you would think? Sure. If you had the appropriate accesses. Yeah. What special access programs cover this information and how is it possible that they have evaded oversight for so long? I do know the names. Once again, I can't discuss that publicly and how they've evaded oversight. I, in a closed setting, I can tell you the specific tradecraft use. All right. When did, when do you think those programs began and who authorized them? I do know a lot of that information, but that's something I can't discuss publicly. All right. If any of y'all want to jump in on any of this, you're more than welcome to. Um, what level of security clearance is required to fully access these programs? Well, anybody who has, and I say that because myself, um, Representative Gates and Representative Luna were basically turned away at one point at Eglin. So please go right ahead. Certainly a difference between member access and say somebody like me, but anybody who has a, you know, TSSCI clearance and meets the eligibility criteria, the access adjudicative authority should be able to grant you access. Mr. Burchard, if you'll yield. So just to be, put a fine point on that. There's nothing that you're aware of that's above special access program classification. It's a misnomer that there's anything actually above top secret executive order 13, 526 delineates classification levels. Right. And, but I, I draw a point on that because we can have access to, to those programs. And so the notion that we're not being given that access sort of defies our typical muscle memory here in Congress. Thank you, Mr. Burchard. I'll yield back to you. Thank you, Mr. Gates. Um, along those lines, Title 10, you might not know this or not, but a Title 10 and Title 50 authorization, as they, they seem to say they're inefficient. So who gets to decide this in your opinion in the past? Uh, it's a group of career, uh, senior executive officials. Okay. Are they government officials? Both in and out. Do what? Both in and out of government. And that's about as far as I can go there. All right. Well, that's, it leads to my next question, which private corporations are directly involved in this program? How much taxpayer money has been invested in these programs to your knowledge? I mean, we know, we know we, we audit the Pentagon every year and I've been here five years and they failed the dadgum thing every year. They, uh, lose over a billion dollars a year, we think. And I've told the Department of Defense, maybe 60% of their assets are unaccounted for, whatever the heck that means. In the public sector, you go to jail for that kind of crap. So tell me. Yeah, I know when I, um, I'm a dollar off of my DTS travel voucher, I get hammered, but, uh, it seems like it doesn't work the other way. If you sell over six, if you sell over $600 worth of stuff on eBay, now you get a call from the IRS. So please, what corporations? Yeah, I don't know the specific metrics towards the end of your question. The specific corporations I did provide to the committees in specific divisions. And I spent 11 and a half hours with both Intel committees. Okay. Has there been any, has there been an active U.S. government disinformation campaign to deny the existence of unidentified aerial phenomena? And if so, why? I can't go beyond what I've already espoused publicly about that. Okay. I've been told to ask you what that, what that is and how to get it in the record, which, uh, what have you stated publicly in your interviews for the congressional record? Uh, yeah. If you, uh, reference my News Nation interview and I talk about a multi-decade, you know, campaign to, um, disenfranchise public interest, basically. Apologize, Mr. Chairman. I yield back negative 21 seconds. Thank you. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to our witnesses for coming here today. Um, I do concur with the ranking members as well as several other members here on this committee that this is a committee for whistleblowers and for the protection of whistleblowers as well. So we understand what you're putting, um, on the table here and we're putting on the line here and we thank you for that. Uh, Mr. Grush, you sat on the Unidentified Anomalous Phenomenon Task Force created in the 2020 NDAA, correct? Yes. There have been some things that, uh, that have been mentioned here during this hearing that I wanted to pick up on. Um, Mr. Graves, you mentioned specifically during the answers to one of your questions, you named Boeing contractors, um, being engaged in an incident regarding this red cube about a football, um, a football field wide. I was wondering if you could speak a little bit about the interaction, or Mr. Grush, either of you, the interactions between defense contractor companies and any UAP-related programs or activities. So I'll just say that the information about, um, the contractor himself were provided by a witness and I have no particular detail in that relationship. Mr. Grush. Uh, the kind of general unclass wavetops, certainly the contractors, you know, are the metal benders, so to speak. They're the ones actually, uh, doing specific performance on government contracts. Are they required, um, to issue any disclosure regarding UAP sightings or do they engage in any reporting around this? Uh, in terms of the contractors? Yes. Not that I'm aware of. They do not. Okay. Now, when it comes to notification that you had mentioned about, um, IRAP pro- IRAD programs, we have seen, uh, defense contractors abuse, uh, their contracts before through this committee. Um, I have seen it personally, um, and I have also seen the notification requirements to Congress abused. Um, I am wondering, one of the loopholes that we see in the law is that there is, at least from my vantage point, is that depending on what we're seeing is that there are no actual definitions or requirements for notification. Are there, what methods of notification did you observe? Like, when they say they notified Congress, how did they do that? Do you have insight into that? Uh, for certain IRAD activities, uh, that would be, uh, I can only think of ones conventional in nature. Um, sometimes they throw, uh, flow through certain, how to say, SAP programs that have cognizant authority over the Air Force or something. And those are congressionally reported compartments, but IRAD is literally internal to the contractors. So as long as it's money, either profits, private investment, et cetera, they can do whatever they want. To put a finer point on it, when there is a requirement for any agency or company to notify or any agency to notify Congress, do they contact the chairman of a committee? Do they get them on the phone specifically? Is this through an email to, hypothetically, a dead email box? A lot of it comes through what they call the PPR, periodic program review process. If it's a, you know, a SAP or controlled access program equity, and then those go to the specific committees, whether it be the SAS, CASC, HSE. Thank you. Um, I apologize. I just, my time is limited. Um, Mr. Graves, one of your main concerns that the FAA currently does not have an official process to receive reports of UAP from pilots or others, correct? Correct. And, um, in your experience, what data should the AERO program prioritize for potential collection? We have, you know, location, date, time, but are there other specific characteristics that should be included in these reports? Certainly. Uh, I think that there's two categories that would be important. Uh, one would be kinematics and understanding the specifics of how the vehicle or objects are moving. Uh, and the second would be a more zoomed out approach of being able to, uh, look at origin and destination, uh, after, before the incident, as well as getting a better contextual understanding of how these, uh, these objects are interacting with each other. Thank you. Now, because I only have a minute left, I apologize. We only have five minutes today, but, um, for the record, if you were me, where would you look? Titles, programs, departments, regions, if you could just name anything. Um, and I put that as an open question to the three of you. I'd be happy to give you that in a closed environment. I can tell you specifically. Thank you. Um, Commander Fravor? I would say, and I've told people that you have to know where to look. They're not going to divulge it to you because of the classification levels. But if you know where to look and who to talk to, which is exactly where Mr. Grush can point you, then you, then you have them. Okay. Mr. Graves? I was an operator, so I was defending on folks like Mr. Grush to do that homework. Okay. Thank you very much. I yield back to the chair. Mr. Biggs? Thanks. Thanks, Mr. Chairman. I thank the witnesses for being here today. I'm over here. Thank you so much for being here. Um, I, I want to get into, uh, specifics here. And, and, uh, the reason I'm going to go this way is because you've talked a bit about, um, what I would call misdirection by, um, official U.S. government with regard to UAPs, right? And so I'm gonna get to that in a second. But last week, White House NSC spokesman John Kirby stated that UAPs are having an impact on our training ranges and need to be treated as a legitimate issue. Do you concur with the statements? That's for each of you. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Now, having said that, I'm gonna take you to specific instances around the Phoenix Valley, because that's where I live. In 97, we had the famous Phoenix light case. I don't know if any of you are familiar with that. There were two things that went along with that. And the explanation was military training range off Luke and the Barry Goldwater range. Do you know anything different other than the official explanation of those lights? Only what's in the public vernacular about it. That was outside the scope of my duties. And if we wanted to, just my question along with my colleague from New York, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, if we wanted to find out more about that, where would we go to find the files? And who would we address? And are you gonna tell me we need to go to the SCIF so you can tell us in a SCIF? I could potentially give you a vector on that. That specific case, I'm not, I mean, I'm familiar with it in terms of public, but I give you a vector in a closed environment, yeah. That would be good, thank you. So if it's true that UAPs are having an impact on training ranges, and this administration considers it to be a legitimate issue, what steps can Congress take to address training range impacts? And I say that having two very large training ranges in my state. And so we'll start with Mr. Graves and go on down the panel. Some of the initial procedures have been implemented, such as within the United States Navy that have a range follow report that gathers information from pilots. I understand that a service-wide reporting mechanism is still pending. However, that would be a great next step, not only for gathering information, but for showing the troops that is an acceptable topic and reducing the stigma. Okay, please, all of you continue. Yeah, as a recipient of a lot of those training range reports, sometimes we only get contextual kind of oral reporting. It'd be nice if they attached all sensor data and there's a system in place that can handle multiple classifications of data. And that's an issue with the F-35, right?