Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
Pilots, both military and commercial, need a secure and transparent reporting system for UAP encounters. There is a fear that reporting UAPs will result in professional repercussions and loss of job security. Currently, there is a dearth of data due to limited reporting. While there are national security concerns, the objects themselves should not be classified. There needs to be a centralized system for processing and investigating UAP reports, as well as a two-way communication loop for operators to receive feedback and best practices. The lack of a reporting system is harmful to national security interests and understanding UAP phenomenon. Steps should be taken to encourage and facilitate civilian reporting, potentially through a sensor-centric operation. The objects observed by pilots exhibit maneuvers and capabilities beyond our current understanding of technology. The government is in possession of UAPs, as confirmed by witness testimonies. The specific locations and information have been provided to the Inspector General and Intelligence Committees.

Fravor, I noticed that in the Tic Tac video, it's Tic Tac, like the candy, not Tic Tac, like the Chinese communist app. That's correct. Yes, sir, I just wanna make that, because my daughter corrected me on that and called me a boomer and said, hey, boomer. And I said, no, baby, it's Tic Tac, like the candy. You're gonna have to just look it up. And, but now I would also like to say, today is a day of many firsts. It's a miracle that we're having this meeting. And it's also a miracle that my wife has put up with me for nine years today. Today is my anniversary. So I wanna tell my wife, happy anniversary, and that I love her very much. As she likes to say, this nine years have been the best two years of her life. So, thank you. Mr. Fravor, what astonished you the most about the flight capabilities of these Tic Tac, very briefly? The performance, absolute performance. And you're not aware of any other objects that anybody in the world has, in this world, that has those capabilities? No, I think it's far beyond, actually, our material science that we currently possess. Are you aware of any other reconnaissance platforms that have tracked or recorded the Tic Tac's maneuvers, maybe the NORAD system or any of the others? I am not. Okay. Mr. Grush, thank you for being here, brother. Thank you all very much. Have you faced any retaliation or reprisals for any of your testimony or anything on these lines? Yeah, I have to be careful what I say in detail because there is an open whistleblower reprisal investigation on my behalf, and I don't wanna compromise that investigation by providing anything that may help provide somebody information. But it was very brutal and very unfortunate, some of the tactics they used to hurt me both professionally and personally, to be quite frank. It's very unfortunate, as they say, when you're off the target, that's when they do the most firing at you. Do you have any personal knowledge of people who've been harmed or injured in efforts to cover up or conceal these extraterrestrial technology? Yes. Personally. Have anyone been murdered that you know of or have heard of, I guess? I have to be careful asking that question. Directed people with that knowledge to the appropriate authorities. Maybe if we could get in a confidential area, a SCIF, we could talk about that, but unfortunately, we were denied access to the SCIF, and that's very unfortunate in this scenario. Mr. Faber, do you believe that you witnessed an additional object under the water in relation to your encounter? I will say we did not see an object. There was something there to cause the whitewater, and when we turned around, it was gone, so there was something there that obviously moved. Okay, it was not the same object, though, that you were looking at, correct? No, we actually joked that the TICTAC was communicating with something when we came back, and because the whitewater disappeared. We were, in another instance, were told about the capabilities of a jamming during viewing when there were some people chasing some of these objects. Did you experience any of that jamming or interrupting your radar or weapons system? My crew that launched after we landed experienced significant jamming to the APG-73 radar, which was what we had on board, which is a mechanically scanned, very high-end system prior to the APG-79, and yes, it did pretty much everything you could do, range, velocity, aspect, and then it spit the lock, and the targeting pod is passive. That's what we were able to get the video on. I'm about to run out of time, but are you aware of any of our enemies that have that capability? No. Okay, I would also like to note for the record that like George Knapp, breaking Area 51, he's the reason I knew about that, and the reason I know about the TICTACs is Leslie Keene from New York Times article, and I would encourage everybody to read that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back to you for no time. Very good. Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Graves, you reported UAP encounters during training flights, I think, and have since come forward to warn the Pentagon that these encounters may be putting pilots at risk. My first question is, you've identified these as taking place on the East Coast. Is it just on the East Coast where these encounters have been reported? No, since the events initially occurred, I've learned that the objects have been detected essentially where all operations, Navy operations are being conducted across the world, and that's from the All Domain Anomaly Resolutions Office reporting. Can you describe your experience after you decided to come forward and go public with your experience? Certainly. Like many others, in 2017, I saw the New York Times article come out as well, and for me, it was special because I recognized the voices on the video. I recognized the video itself. I had seen it when it was taken. I'd seen it when it was debriefed, and so that kind of shook me because I realized that this problem was still ongoing, and so I reached out to colleagues back on the East Coast and realized that this was still a safety risk that they were dealing with, that they had essentially hit a wall with how they could move forward on this conversation. It was at that point when I decided to try to move the conversation forward myself. Are there common characteristics to the UAPs that have been cited by different pilots, and can you describe what the convergence of descriptions is? Certainly. We were primarily seeing dark gray or black cubes inside of a clear sphere. I'm sorry, dark gray or black cubes? Yes, inside of a clear sphere where the apex or tips of the cube were touching the inside of that sphere, and that was primarily what was being reported when we were able to gain a visual tally of these objects, and that occurred over almost eight years, and as far as I know, it's still occurring. So I take it that you're arguing what we need is real transparency in a reporting system so we can get some clarity on what's going on out there because there are many pilots in your situation, but we should have a way of developing a systematic inventory of all of such encounters. Is that right? Yes, and I think we need both transparency and the reporting. We have the reporting, but we need to make sure that information can be promulgated to commercial aviation as well as the rest of the populace. Mr. Grush, what about you? What was your experience after you came forward? Well, it's only been about two months or so, so I guess my experience has been overwhelming support from former colleagues of mine that have privately messaged me, and I do appreciate that, but I do have knowledge of active planned reprisal activity. against myself and other colleagues, and it's very upsetting to me. Coming from where? Certain senior leadership at previous agencies I was associated with, and that's all I'll say publicly, but I can provide more details in a closed environment. Okay, well, I hope you understand that there would be bipartisan rejection of any attempt to vilify, demonize, or engage in other reprisals against our witnesses and people who are telling the truth from their perspective. Yeah, there were certain colleagues of mine that were brutally administratively attacked, and it actually makes me very upset as a leader to see that happen to other coworkers and actually superiors of mine over the last three years. How do you account for that response? That seems like a bizarre response. I call it administrative terrorism. That's their quiver, their tool in the toolbox to silence people, especially the career government service cares about their career, cares about their clearance, their reputation, to climb the ladder, and when you threaten that career path, a lot of people back off, but I'm here to represent those people. Mr. Fravor, what about you? What has your experience been since you've come forward with your perspective on this? Actually, I've been treated very well, and the six people that were involved, myself included, all of them have or will be retiring from the military as O5s or O6s, and all my friends that are very senior, three and four stars, I've talked to them. They believe, they understand there's a problem, but no, I was actually treated really well. And what is your general interpretation of these phenomena, or what is your current thinking of trying to make sense of them? Well, I'll say, you know, I'm not like a UFO fanatic, it's not me, but I will tell you that what we saw with four sets of eyes over a five-minute period, still, there's nothing, we have nothing close to it. It was amazing to see, I told my buddy I wanted to fly it, but yeah, it's just an incredible technology. All right, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much, I'll yield back to you. Thanks, on to Ms. Luna. Mr. Grush, in speaking to you yesterday, I just wanted to follow up on Representative Raskin's questions. In the last couple of years, have you had incidences that have caused you to be in fear for your life for addressing these issues? Yes, personally. I just want everyone to note that he's coming forward in fear of his life to put in perspective if they were really not scared about this information coming out, why would someone be intimidated like that? To your knowledge, are NHIs working with adversarial foreign governments in either technology exchange programs or back engineering programs? I don't have data on that, I'm not sure. Have you heard or you had people come forward to present that evidence? Not that particular evidence that you just espoused. Okay, on the 19th of April, Dr. Kirkpatrick, head of Aero, had said that he did not find any evidence of UAPs. You also stated that you had, in your interview, that you had briefed him on information that you were uncovering, but that he did not follow up with you. Were the items that you divulged to him pertinent to national security? Yes, him and I had a classified conversation in April 2022 before he took over Aero in July 2022, and I provided him some concerns I had. Do you know why he might not have followed up with you? Unfortunately, I cannot read his mind. I wish he did. I was happy to give sage counsel to him on where to look when he took the helm of Aero. Okay, and then my last question for you before I move to Mr. Graves is, you received prior approval from the Defense Department to speak on certain issues, correct? Correct, through DOPSER, DoD Pre-Publication and Security Review, and I just want to remind the public, they're just looking from a security perspective. These are my own personal views and opinions, not the Department's. Okay, I'm asking that though mainly because I think that there are many people that would like to discredit you, so it does bring a certain amount of credibility to your testimony. I'm required by law to do that as a former intelligence officer or I go to jail for revealing classified information. Yeah, we don't want you to go to jail. My next question would actually be for Mr. Graves. Can you please explain to me in detail the event that occurred at Vandenberg Air Force Base? Certainly. In the 2003 timeframe, a large group of Boeing contractors were operating near one of the launch facilities at Vandenberg Air Force Base when they observed a very large 100-yard sighted red square approach the base from the ocean and hover at low altitude over one of the launch facilities. This object remained for about 45 seconds or so before darting off over the mountains. There was a similar event within 24 hours later in the evening. This was a morning event, I believe 8.45 in the morning. Later in the evening post sunset, there were reports of other sightings on base, including some aggressive behaviors. These objects were approaching some of the security guards at rapid speeds before darting off and this is information that was received through one of the witnesses that have approached me at Americans for Safe Aerospace. Was this documented in any official form, whether it was a police blotter? Yes. They had official documentation and records from the event that the witness held over the years. And I'm not going to ask you to do it right now for time reasons, but you'd be able to sketch what was witnessed, correct? And have you seen that before on any other equipment and or during your flight time? I have not seen what they've described. This object was estimated to be almost the size of a football field and I have not seen anything personally that large. Okay, and then another question on follow-up, referencing the gimbal video, go fast incident. Can you just clarify, because to our understanding the footage was actually cut off at a certain point, but what happens at the end of that video just for those Americans specifically there that are wanting to know about the rest of that footage? Certainly. There was some uncertainty or instability with the object.