Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
Witnesses discussed their personal experiences with encounters of unidentified aerial phenomena (UAPs). They described the lack of transparency and fear of retaliation in relation to UAP encounters. Witnesses mentioned specific characteristics of UAPs and incidents at Vandenberg Air Force Base. They also suggested the potential involvement of the US government in a disinformation campaign. Witnesses emphasized the importance of transparency, accountability, and the role of NASA and the scientific community in investigating UAPs. Additionally, witnesses shared specific incidents and encounters with UAPs, including instances where UAPs caused harm to humans and disabled sensor and collection systems on aircraft. They called for a change in reporting culture and stressed the importance of secure facilities to share classified information. Witnesses recommended comprehensive analysis of UAPs, meeting with experts in secure compartments, and obtaining radar and photographic evidence for further examination. One witness mentioned the need to call in specific individuals and agencies to address questions related to UAPs.

It's a topic that has interested me since I was in school. It was a very illuminating hearing. Obviously, I think several of us are going to look forward to getting some answers in a more confidential setting. I assume some legislation will come out of this. Sure. I apologize, Mr. Chairman. I need to compliment the folks in my office that did a lot of the work on this. Rachel and Noah sitting behind me here, they're very quiet and humble. But without them, this thing would not have come off like it did. So I apologize. Thank you. I think we're going to want to look into what we can do. to make more of this information public. I think there's certainly a time period after which it should always be made public and people have been concerned about these issues, like I said, since I was in high school. But in any event, I'd like to thank everybody who was here sticking through the entire hearing. Without objection, the members will have five legislative days to submit materials and to submit additional written questions for the witnesses, which we forward to the witnesses for their response. If there's no further business, without objection, the subcommittee stands adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.