Please provide a detailed summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
Dr. Michael Klaper, a plant-based physician, discusses the importance of nutrition in our overall health and well-being. He explains that food molecules flow through every cell in our body and can turn genes on or off, induce or shut down enzymes. He partnered with Mindvalley to offer free masterclasses on mind, body, soul, relationships, and conscious entrepreneurship.   Dr. Klaper discusses his own journey to a plant-based diet, starting with his frustration as a general practitioner seeing his patients get sicker and having heart attacks and strokes without knowing how to help them. He decided to become an anesthesiologist but realized that the fatty deposits causing heart attacks and strokes were reversible with a plant-based diet. He adopted a whole food, plant-based diet and experienced significant improvements in his health, including weight loss, normalized blood pressure, and cholesterol levels. This inspired him to go back to general practice and help his patients adopt a plant-based diet to achieve similar results.   He explains that doctors do not receive adequate nutrition education in medical school, and as a result, they often overlook the role of diet in disease prevention and management. He believes that the influence of the meat and dairy industries, as well as the focus on drugs and surgeries, contribute to this lack of nutrition knowledge among doctors. However, he is hopeful that the new generation of medical students, who have access to documentaries and information on plant-based diets, will bring about a change in the medical establishment's understanding and treatment of nutrition. Dr. Klaper is actively working on educating medical students and professors through the Moving Medicine Forward initiative, which aims to incorporate nutrition into medical school curricula and promote evidence-based research on the benefits of plant-based diets. He believes that as more people become educated about the benefits of plant-based diets and as the plant-based food industry continues to improve, the shift towards a plant-based lifestyle will become more mainstream. He also addresses the misconception that plant-based diets are restrictive and highlights the variety and deliciousness of plant-based cuisine. Overall, Dr. Klaper emphasizes the power of nutrition in preventing and reversing chronic diseases and advocates for its inclusion in medical education.

I know a lot of people listening might not be plant-based and want to learn more about it. When you made that change early in the, in the early eighties, what was the first thing that you noticed that changed? What were the, what were the things that were physically happening to you that you noticed right away? Well, that if I could speak from medical contents, boy, my bowel movements changed. I started passing big soft stools. I have no problem with my elimination at all. My belly got flatter. My girlfriend noticed, you know, your body odor's gone away. You don't smell like a locker room anymore. And it turns out there's some good science why that happens as the plant oils replace the animal fats in the diet. It changes the skin oil chemistry and, and that disappears. A bad breath goes away. And, and my energy level just went up. I needed less sleep. I could run further. I just felt like a light gazelle instead of a ponderous, ponderous, I'm trying to think of a, I don't want to do grass dispersions on our, on our plant-based animals. But really I just felt it was a light, lean, excellently functioning body with normal blood pressure. I was really afraid of having a stroke and clogging an artery like my dad did. And well, that all just went away. My cholesterol was 112. And I just, I knew that I was a healthy man and eating a lot. And I was eating more food than ever. And it was fast. It was fascinating. When I, when I jumped into be becoming a plant-based, I started with a, a juice fast. I did a juice fast for two weeks. Cause I wanted to just test it. I saw that movie. I'm sick, fat, sick, and nearly dead. It was a great documentary by Jeff, by, I forgot it's Jeff Cross. And I was like, you know what, let me give it a shot. And I did, I did a few days. I was like, you know what? I'm going to go for a week. You know what? I'm going to go for two weeks. And then when I got off of it, I decided, I was like, I'm not going to eat meat for a day. I'm not going to eat meat for four. Cause I really didn't know what was going to happen to me, even though I had already gone two weeks. And I, I felt wonderful in those two weeks of just drinking juice because of all that. It's just, it's just completely changes everything. But then after a week or two, I'm like, I think I can, I don't think I need meat anymore. And that's, and I just kept going. And I just haven't really looked back, haven't eaten any meat, meat. I think I might've had fish once or twice in the last 10 years, a sushi or something like that. But other than that really never touched meat again, any kind of meats, chicken, meat, fish, pork, or anything like that. And the thing was fascinating. And I'd love to hear your thoughts about it. You know, I was pre-diabetic prior to doing that. It was like on, I think it was about one 10, one nine. Oh, nine was the, was my test. I, when I was on the juice and the juice cleanse drinking sugar, basically fruit juice had kale and spinach and things, but there was a lot of apples in there because I needed, I was a plant, I was a meat eater. I needed something sweet to make this thing go down. So I drank a lot of apple juice, you know, freshly, you know, freshly crushed and all that stuff that I was doing. And I tested my blood a week in, and it was like 90. Then I tested it a week at like right before I jumped up and I was 73. And I was just like, how can my blood sugar go down with me giving it basically sugar water, which is apples, but mixed with all these other nutrients and vegetables. So I'd love to hear your thoughts on why that happened to me. Oh, because people who have pre-diabetes or actual diabetes type two, with all concern, avoid those carbs, avoid the sugar. The truth is we are sugar eating, sugar metabolizing organisms. The mitochondria in our cells burn glucose as a preferential fuel. And we have basically the same digestive system that our gorilla and bonobo cousins have. And they're up in the trees eating leaves and fruit all day, which is a high carbohydrate diet. And yet their insulin receptors are working just beautifully. And they're able to metabolize that sugar very efficiently. Why? Because instead of avoiding those carbohydrates, which is really our natural fuel, it turns out it's the excess fats in the diet that really clog up our insulin receptors and make that blood sugar go up. And now we need a little bit of fat in our diet, but didn't get that out of walnuts and flax seeds, et cetera. But it's the high fat diet that clogs up the insulin receptors. So when you eat a little bit of sugar, whoa, it's way up. And the paleo folks and the keto folks, they see those carbs are bad, but it's because the insulin receptors are all clogged up with fat. If you take the fat out of there, the majority of the fat and open up those insulin receptors, very little insulin is needed to keep that blood sugar nice and even. And the gorillas in the wild, they don't develop diabetes. They don't develop clogged arteries, even though they're eating a high carbohydrate diet all day. And so it's just our natural diet if we eat it in its whole plant form. Now, if you're eating Oreo cookies and energy drinks and colas all day, that's something else. But if you're getting your diet, you're getting your carbohydrates out of whole plant foods, the blood sugars rise very gracefully, and it's easy to metabolize with a very little bit of insulin. And you wind up with these lovely low blood sugar levels like our other hominid cousins do. So can you talk a little bit about the carb myth? Because carbs have been demonized for so many years now. that it is I mean, and it all started with Dr. Atkins, who oddly enough, died of a heart attack. That's just putting out what is the truth. But he but he started this whole, you know, eating meat, meat, sugar, bacon and sugar, bacon, cheese. And you lose weight and you go into cuties, cuties. So cuties are for what the word is. And that's that was so popularized in the 90s and the early 2000s. And it's still a myth to this day where you look at traditional diets in, let's say, Asia, which is really rice, heavy, white rice, heavy, no less, not even brown rice, white rice, heavy and noodles. And in South America with the tortillas in the in the corn, which is all starch. And yet, generally speaking, you know, there were very, very few overweight Chinese or Asian or, you know, Latin Americans. Nothing like in America or in the east or the west. Nothing like it. So can you talk a little bit about the myth of carbs? I absolutely. And it's related to what I just said. It turns out it's the it's the fats in the diet that cause the problem when combined with the sugar, the fats clog up your insulin receptors. So insulin doesn't work well. And then when you eat a little carbohydrates, the sugars go way up. And Dr. Atkins says, see, it's the bad carbs are causing all the problems. And in 1927, Dr. Harvey Shirley did such a powerful, illustrative study that he took medical students. He's been teaching at the medical school, I think, up in Canada. And he took a whole bunch of med students, divided them up into two groups. One, he put on a high carbohydrate diet. He just load them up with white sugar and white bread and just pure high carbohydrate diet. And the other group, he put a high fat diet, loaded him up with butter and olive oil and then fatty meats. And then after a week on both those kinds of diets, he did a glucose tolerance test where you have to eat some sugar and draw blood sugar and blood sugar test every hour. And it turns out that the med students who are eating the high sugar diet had an absolutely normal glucose tolerance curve. Their sugar went up, went down. And by two hours, their sugar was back down to normal, even though they were eating a high carbohydrate diet. But the med students who were eating a high fat diet, even though they were healthy young men and women, they all developed diabetic glucose tolerance curve. Their sugars went up and stayed up for hours ever from the high fat diet. And it was all reversible when they went back to their normal diet. Everybody reverted back to normal again. But it showed how a high fat diet clogs up your insulin receptors and puts you it creates that effect of type two diabetes. And so now the the paleo folks eat all this meat and fat. Now, they'll they'll lose some weight initially because they go into ketosis and that blunts the appetite. So they eat a bit less. And they and they may be absorbing less fats after a while. Their their stomach, their intestines want to absorb so much fat. So they'll lose a little bit of weight. And and that may improve their cholesterol levels a bit. And the paleo folks I see is a healthy diet. My patients lose weight. Their cholesterol gets better. But I say do not be seduced by these early, early beneficial results. You pack your intestines full of meat three times a day. That is a recipe for an epidemic of colon cancer, for a clogged artery. You're going to generate all this to trimethylamine oxide in the blood. It's going to damage your arteries. Folks are setting themselves up for heart attacks and strokes. It's a great way to give yourself type two diabetes with all this fat. And we see what a how it damages the artery wall, especially in the brain. It's a recipe for dementia. And as you follow these people over the years, you're going to see more and more folks who follow this high meat, high ketone diet are suffering and a terrible incidence of, again, high blood pressure, clogged arteries, diabetes, colon cancer. This it's a it's a diet of death. But you got young, healthy folks initially jumping into this and they're feeling good. They love that taste of steak in their mouth. And, yay, you know, they think they're doing better. But this is a this is a diet of death is a diet of disaster if they continue on it. So so it's it's a physiologic parlor trick to just eat a high meat diet. And sugars don't go up because you're not eating any sugar. And if you do eat any sugar or it goes way up because your insulin receptors all clogged up. And so they point their fingers at all those bad carbs. But it's a it's a Alice in Wonderland inversion of really the truth of what we ought to be eating. No gorilla in the wild eats a high fat diet. No bonobo eats a high fat diet. And they don't develop high blood pressure or diabetes. Right. The same thing with the Atkins diet. I mean, you will get some benefits if you just eat protein all day. You will lose weight. I mean, there's but it's short the second you stop it. The second it happened to me, I did it. I did Adkins so many times when I was in high school. It's not even funny trying to get the shape. And but the moment you go back to a normal diet, it all just comes rushing right back. Yeah. And then all that meat damages the kidneys. A high protein diet forces the kidneys go into hyperfiltration. This is a ticket to the dialysis unit to be eating meat at the level that they're doing. You know, once or twice a week, you probably get away with. But to be eating animal flesh two, three times a day. We are not carnivorous apes. And so I said that and the people advocating this, this is this is drive by nutrition advice. I asked the docs who were advocating, you're going to be around in 10 years when this guy passes his first bloody stool from that colon cancer. Your diet gave me you won't be around for your new appointment in Seattle at the luxury spa there. You're going to be around when this lady has her stroke from that carotid plaque, your artery spawn and your diet spawn in her arteries. You won't be around to see it. This is a foolish and dangerous piece of advice to be dispensing. And the cows will come or the chickens will come home to roost, unfortunately. Now, what was your biggest challenge making the switch from a meat American diet, general American diet or Western diet to a plant based diet? Even in the end, by the way, when you did in the 80s, it was not easy. It wasn't easy. Ten years ago when.