Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
The source of energy at the origin of life is the reaction between carbon dioxide and hydrogen. This reaction releases energy and is less stable than cells. One possible environment on early Earth that matches the requirements of cells is created by hydrothermal vents, which generate hydrogen gas and electrical charges. However, oxygen makes it impossible for life to start, as hydrogen reacts with oxygen instead of CO2. There is a possibility that life originated multiple times on Earth, but oxygen limits the possibility. Life probably arose only once due to the deep split in biochemistry between bacteria and archaea. They are similar in some ways, such as having membranes and genetic code, but different in their DNA replication and enzymes. This suggests a common ancestor and the success of one cell taking over. When cells leave the vents, they need to power up their own membranes, which is achieved through pumping.

You need to pump ions to give an electrical charge on the membrane. So what do the pumps look like? Well, the pumps look different in these two groups. It's as if they both emerged from a common ancestor. As soon as you've got that ancestor, things move very quickly and divergently. Why does the DNA replication look different? Well, it's joined to the membrane. The membranes are different. The DNA replication is different because it's joined to a different kind of membrane. So there's interesting, you know, this is detail, you may say, but it's also fundamental because it's about the two big divergent groups of life on earth that seem to have diverged really early on. It all started from one organism and then that organism just start replicating the heck out of itself with some mutation of the DNA. So like there's some, there's a competition through the process of evolution. They're not like trying to beat each other up. They're just, they're just trying to live. Just replicators. Yeah. Well, you know, let's not minimize their, they're just trying to chill. They're trying to relax up in the, there's no, but there's no sense of trying to survive. They're replicating. I mean, there's no sense in which they're trying to do anything. They're just kind of an outgrowth of the earth, you might say. Of course, the aliens would describe us humans in that same way. They might be right. This primitive life. It's just, it's just ants that are hairless, mostly hairless. Overgrown ants. Overgrown ants. Okay. What do you think about the idea of panspermia? the theory that life did not originate on Earth and was planted here from outer space. Or pseudopanspermia, which is like the basic ingredients, the magic that you mentioned was planted here from elsewhere in space. I don't find them helpful. That's not to say they're wrong. So pseudotranspermia, the idea that the chemicals, the amino acids, the nucleotides are being delivered from space. Well, we know that happens. It's unequivocal. They're delivered on meteorites, comets, and so on. So what do they do next? That's, to me, the question. Well, what do they do is they stock a soup. Presumably, they land in a pond or in an ocean or wherever they land. And then you end up with, in best possible case scenarios, you end up with a soup of nucleotides and amino acids. And then you have to say, so now what happens? And the answer is, oh, well, they have to go, bloop, and become alive. So how did they do that? You may as well say then a miracle happened. I don't believe in soup. I think what we have in a vent is a continuous conversion, a continuous growth, a continuous reaction, a continuous converting the flow of molecules into more of yourself, you might say, even if it's a small bit. So you've got a kind of continuous self-organization and growth from the very beginning. You never have that in a soup. Isn't the entire universe and living organisms in the universe, isn't it just soup all the way down? Isn't it all soup? No, no, I mean, soup almost by definition doesn't have a structure. But soup is a collection of ingredients that are like randomly- Yeah, but they're not random. They're not, I mean, we have chemistry going on here. We have membranes forming, which are, you know, effective oil-water interactions. Okay, so it feels like there's a direction to a process, like a direct process. There are directions to processes, yeah. And if you're starting with CO2 and you've got two reactive fluids being brought together and they react, what are they gonna make? Well, they make carboxylic acids, which include the fatty acids that make up the cell membranes. And they form directly into bilayer membranes. They form like soap bubbles. It's spontaneous organization caused by the nature of the molecules. And those things are capable of growing and are capable, in effect, of being selected even before there are genes. So we have a lot of order. And that order is coming from thermodynamics. And the thermodynamics, it's always about increasing the entropy of the universe. But if you have oil and water and they're separating, you're increasing the entropy of the universe, even though you've got some order, which is the soap and the water are not miscible. Now, to come back to your first question about panspermia properly, that just pushes the question somewhere else. Even if it's true, maybe life did start on Earth by panspermia. So what are the principles that govern the emergence of life on any planet? It's an assumption that life started here. And it's an assumption that it started in a hydrothermal vent or it started in a terrestrial geothermal system. The question is, can we work out a testable sequence of events that would lead from one to the other one and then test it and see if there's any truth in it or not? With panspermia, you can't do any of that. But the fundamental question of panspermia is, do we have the machine here on Earth to build life? Is the vents enough? Is oxygen and hydrogen and whatever the heck else we want and some source of energy and heat, is that enough to build life? Yes. Well, that's, of course you would say that as a human, but there could be aliens right now that are chuckling at that idea. Maybe you need some special sauce, special elsewhere sauce. So your sense is we have everything here. I mean, this is precisely the question. So I like to, when I'm talking in schools, I like to start out with the idea of we can make a time machine. We go back four billion years and we go to these environments that people talk about. We go to a deep sea hydrothermal vent. We go to a kind of Yellowstone Park type place environment. And we find some slime that looks like we can test it. It's made of organic molecules. It's got a structure, which is not obviously cells, but is this a stepping stone on the way to life or not? Yeah. How do we know? Unless we've got an intellectual framework that says this is a stepping stone and that's not a step, you know, we'd never know. We wouldn't know which environment to go to, what to look for, how to say this. So all we can ever hope for, because we're never going to build that time machine, is to have an intellectual framework that can explain step-by-step, experiment-by-experiment, how we go from a sterile inorganic planet to living cells as we know them. And in that framework, every time you have a choice, it could be this way or it could be that way, or, you know, there's lots of possible forks down that road. Did it have to be that way? Could it have been the other way? And would that have given you life with very different properties? And so if you come up with a, you know, it's a long hypothesis, because as I say, we're going from really simple prebiotic chemistry all the way through to genes and molecular machines. That's a long, long pathway. And nobody in the field would agree on the order in which these things happened, which is not a bad thing because it means that you have to go out and do some experiments and try and demonstrate that it's possible or not possible. It's so freaking amazing that it happened though. It feels like there's a direction to the thing. Can you try to answer from a framework perspective of what is life? So you said there's some order, and yet there's complexity. So it's not perfectly ordered. It's not boring. There's still some fun in it. And it also feels like the processes have a direction through the selection mechanism. They seem to be building something, always better, always improving. I mean, maybe it's- I mean, that's a perception. That's our romanticization of things are always better. Things are getting better. We'd like to believe that. I mean, you think about the world from the point of view of bacteria, and bacteria are the first things to emerge from whatever environment they came from. And they dominated the planet very, very quickly. And they haven't really changed. Four billion years later, they look exactly the same. So about four billion years ago, bacteria started to really run the show. And then nothing happened for a while. Nothing happened for two billion years. Then after two billion years, we see another single event, origin, if you like, of our own type of cell, the eukaryotic cells, cells with a nucleus and lots of stuff going on inside. Another singular origin. It only happened once in the history of life on Earth. Maybe it happened multiple times, and there's no evidence. Everything just disappeared. We have to at least take it seriously that there's something that stops bacteria from becoming more complex, because they didn't. You know, that's a fact that they emerged four billion years ago, and something happened two billion years ago, but the bacteria themselves didn't change. They remain bacterial. So there is no necessary trajectory towards great complexity in human beings at the end of it. It's very easy to imagine that without photosynthesis arising or without eukaryotes arising, that a planet could be full of bacteria and nothing else. We'll get to that, because that's a brilliant invention, and there's a few brilliant invention along the way. But what is life? If you were to show up on Earth, but to take that time machine, and you said, asking yourself the question, is this a stepping stone towards life? As you step along, when you see the early bacteria, how would you know it's life? And then this is a really important question when you go to other planets and look for life. Like, what is the framework of telling the difference between a rock and a bacteria? I mean, the question's kind of both impossible to answer and trivial at the same time, and I don't like to answer it, because I don't think there is an answer. I think we're trying to describe- Those are the most fun questions. What do you mean there's no answer? No, there is no answer. I mean, there's lots of, at least 40 or 50 different definitions of life out there, and most of them are, well- Obviously bad, in one way or another. I mean, I can never remember the exact words that people use, but there's a NASA working definition of life, which more or less says a system which is capable of, a self-sustaining system capable of evolution or something along those lines. And I immediately have a problem with the word self-sustaining, because it's sustained by the environment, and I know what they're getting at. I know what they're trying to say, but I pick a hole in that. And there's always wags who say, but by that definition, a rabbit is not alive. Only a pair of rabbits would be alive, because a single rabbit is incapable of copying itself. There's all kinds of pedantic, silly but also important objections to any hypothesis. The real question is what is- We can argue all day, or people do argue all day about, is a virus alive or not? And it depends on the content. Most biologists could not agree about that. So then what about a jumping gene, a retro element or something like that? It's even simpler than a virus, but it's capable of converting its environment into a copy of itself. And that's about as close, this is not a definition, but this is a kind of a description of life, is that it's able to parasitize the environment, and that goes for plants as well as animals and bacteria and viruses, to make a relatively exact copy of themselves, informationally exact copy of themselves. By the way, it doesn't really have to be a copy of itself, right? It just has to be, you have to create something that's interesting. Like the way evolution is, so it is extremely powerful process of evolution, which is basically make a copy of yourself and sometimes mess up a little bit. Okay, that seems to work really well. I wonder if it's possible to- Mess up big time. Mess up big time as a standard, as the default. It's called the hopeful monster, and you know, there's- It doesn't work. In principle, it can. Actually, it turns out, I would say that this is due a re-emergence. There's some amazing work from Michael Levin. I don't know if you came across him, but if you haven't interviewed him, you should interview him. Yeah, in Boston. About, yeah. I'm talking to him in a few days. Oh, fantastic. So I mentioned, there's two people that Andre, if I may mention, Andre Karpathy is a friend who's really admired in the AI community, said you absolutely must talk to Michael and to Nick. So this, of course, I'm a huge fan of yours, so I'm really fortunate that we can actually make this happen. Anyway, you were saying? Well, Michael Levin is doing amazing work, basically about the way in which electrical fields control development.