Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
The discussion revolves around the origins and evolution of life, focusing on the impact of mitochondria and the invention of sex. Mitochondria are bacteria that entered cells and retained only essential genes, leading to a significant increase in the potential for evolution. The incorporation of mitochondria inside cells allowed for better information storage, energy utilization, and hierarchical control, which eventually led to multicellular organisms. Sex was invented around two billion years ago in eukaryotes and involves the fusion of gametes to create offspring with a diverse combination of genetic material. Sex serves as a mechanism to prevent mutations and maintain the quality of genomes, but the specifics of sexual selection and its non-random nature are still uncertain.

Because eukaryotes just kind of float around, just kind of have- Yeah, I mean, is there sexual selection in single-celled eukaryotes? There probably is, it's just that I don't know very much about it. You don't hang out with the eukaryotes? Well, I do all the time, but I, you know. But you can't communicate with them yet. Yeah, a peacock or something. Yes. The kind of standard, this is not quite what I work on, but the standard answer is that it's female mate choice. She is looking for good genes. And if you can have a tail that's like this and still survive, still be alive, not actually have been taken down by the nearest predator, then you must've got pretty good genes because despite this handicap, you're able to survive. So those are like human interpretable things like with a peacock, but I wonder, I'm sure echoes of the same thing are there with more primitive organisms. Basically, your PR, like how you advertise yourself that you're worthy of- Yeah, absolutely. So one big advertisement is the fact that you survived it all. Let me give you one beautiful example of an algal bloom. And this can be a cyanobacteria, this can be in bacteria. So if suddenly you pump nitrate or phosphate or something into the ocean and everything goes green, you end up with all this algae growing there. A viral infection or something like that can kill the entire bloom overnight. And it's not that the virus takes out everything overnight, it's that most of the cells in that bloom kill themselves before the virus can get onto them. And it's through a form of cell death called programmed cell death. And we do the same things, is how we have the gaps between our fingers and so on, is how we craft synapses in the brain. It's fundamental again to multicellular life. They have the same machinery in these algal blooms. How do they know who dies? The answer is they will often put out a toxin. And that toxin is kind of a challenge to you. Either you can cope with the toxin or you can't. If you can cope with it, you form a spore and you will go on to become the next generation. You'll form a kind of a resistance spore, you sink down a little bit, you get out of the way, you can't be attacked by a virus if you're a spore or at least not so easily. Whereas if you can't deal with that toxin, you pull the plug and you trigger your death apparatus and you kill yourself. So it's truly life and death. Yeah. So it's really, it's a challenge. And this is a bit like sexual selection. They're all pretty much genetically identical, but they've had different life histories. So have you had a tough day? Did you happen to get infected by this virus or did you run out of iron or did you get a bit too much sun? Whatever it may be. If this extra stress of the toxin just pushes you over the edge, then you have this binary choice. Either you're the next generation or you kill yourself now using the same machinery. It's also actually exactly the way I approach dating, but that's probably why I'm single. Okay. What about if we can step back, DNA? Just mechanism of storing information. RNA, DNA. Yeah. How big of an invention was that? That seems to be, that seems to be fundamental to like something deep within what life is, is the ability, as you said, to kind of store and propagate information. But then you also kind of inferred that with your and your students' work that there's a deep connection between the chemistry and the ability to have this kind of genetic information. So how big of an invention is it to have a nice representation, a nice hard drive for info to pass on? Huge, I suspect. I mean, but when I was talking about the code, you see the code in RNA as well. And RNA almost certainly came first. And there's been an idea going back decades called the RNA world, because RNA in theory can copy itself and can catalyze reactions. So it kind of cuts out this chicken and egg loop. So DNA is possible, it's not that special. So RNA, RNA is the thing that does the work really. And the code lies in RNA. The code lies in the interactions between RNA and amino acids. And it still is there today in the ribosome, for example, which is just kind of a giant ribozyme, which is to say it's an enzyme that's made of RNA. So getting to RNA, I suspect, is probably not that hard. But getting from RNA, how do you, there's multiple different types of RNA now. How do you distinguish? This is something we're actively thinking about. How do you distinguish between a random population of RNA? Some of them go on to become messenger RNA. This is the transcript of the code of the gene that you want to make. Some of them become transfer RNA, which is kind of the unit that holds the amino acid that's going to be polymerized. Some of them become ribosomal RNA, which is the machine which is joining them all up together. How do they discriminate themselves? And there's some kind of phase transition going on there. What's that? I don't know. It's a difficult question. And we're now in the region of biology where information is coming in. But the thing about RNA is very, very good at what it does. But the largest genomes supported by RNA are RNA viruses, like HIV, for example. They're pretty small. And so there's a limit to how complex life could be unless you come up with DNA, which chemically is a really small change. But how easy it is to make that change, I don't really know. As soon as you've got DNA, then you've got an amazingly stable molecule for information storage. And you can do absolutely anything. But how likely that transition from RNA to DNA was, I don't know either. How much possibility is there for variety in ways to store information? Because it seems to be very specific characteristics about the programming language of DNA. Yeah, there's a lot of work going on on what's called the Zeno DNA or RNA. Can we replace the bases themselves, the letters, if you like, in RNA or DNA? Can we replace the backbone? Can we replace, for example, phosphate with arsenate? Can we replace the sugar ribose or deoxyribose with a different sugar? And the answer is yes, you can. Within limits, there's not an infinite space there. Arsenate doesn't really work if the bonds are not as strong as phosphate. It's probably quite hard to replace phosphate. It's possible to do it. The question to me is, why is it this way? Is it because there was some form of selection that this is better than the other forms and there were lots of competing forms of information storage early on and this one was the one that worked out? Or was it kind of channeled that way, that these are the molecules that you're dealing with and they work? And I'm increasingly thinking it's that way, that we're channeled towards ribose, phosphate and the bases that are used. But there are 200 different letters kicking around out there that could have been used. It's such an interesting question. If you look at in the programming world in computer science, there's a programming language called JavaScript, which was written super quickly. It's a giant mess, but it took over the world. And it was kind of- Sounds very biological. It was kind of a running joke that like, like surely this can't be, this is a terrible programming language. It's a giant mess. It's full of bugs. It's so easy to write really crappy code, but it took over all of front-end development in the web browser. If you have any kind of dynamic interactive website, it's usually running JavaScript and it's now taking over much of the backend, which is like the serious heavy-duty company. computational stuff, and it's become super fast with the different compilation engines that are running it. So it's like, it really took over the world. It's very possible that this initially crappy, derided language actually takes everything over. And then the question is, did human civilization always strive towards JavaScript? Or was JavaScript just the first programming language that ran on the browser and still sticky? The first is the sticky one. And so it wins over anything else because it was first. And I don't think that's answerable, right? But it's good to ask that. I suppose in the lab, you can't run it with programming languages, but in biology, you can probably do some kind of small-scale evolutionary test to try to infer which is which. Yeah, I mean, in a way, we've got the hardware and the software here. And the hardware is maybe the DNA and the RNA itself, and then the software perhaps is more about the code. Did the code have to be this way? Could it have been a different way? People talk about the optimization of the code, and there's some suggestion for that. I think it's weak, actually. But you could imagine, you could come out with a million different codes, and this would be one of the best ones. Well, we don't know this. I mean, people have tried to model it based on the effect that mutations would have. So, no, you're right, we don't know it, because that's a single assumption, that a mutation is what's being selected on there. And there's other possibilities, too. I mean, there does seem to be a resilience and a redundancy to the whole thing. It's hard to mess up. And the way you mess it up often is likely to produce interesting results. Are you talking about JavaScript or the genetic code now? Yeah, well, I mean, it's almost, biology is underpinned by this kind of mess, as well. And you look at the human genome, and it's full of stuff that is really either broken or dysfunctional, or was a virus once, whatever it may be, and somehow it works. And maybe we need a lot of this mess. We know that some functional genes are taken from this mess. So what about, you mentioned the predatory behavior. Yeah. We talked about sex. What about violence? Predator and prey dynamics. How, when was that invented? And poetic and biological ways of putting it. How do you describe a predator-prey relationship? Is it a beautiful dance, or is it a violent atrocity? Well, I guess it's both, isn't it? I mean, when does it start? It starts in bacteria. You see these amazing predators. Delavibrio is one that Lynn Margulis used to talk about a lot. It's got a kind of a drill piece that drills through the wall and the membrane of the bacterium, and then it effectively eats the bacterium from just inside the periplasmic space, and makes copies of itself that way. So that's straight predation. There are predators among bacteria. So predation in that, sorry to interrupt, means you murder somebody and use their body as a resource in some way. Yeah. But it's not parasitic in that you need them to be still alive. No, no. I mean, predation is you kill them, really. Murder, yeah. Parasites, so you kind of live on them. Okay, so, but it seems the predator is the really popular tool. So what we see, if we go back 560, 570 million years before the Cambrian explosion, there is what's known as the Ediacaran fauna, or sometimes they call Vendobionts, which is a lovely name. And it's not obvious that they're animals at all. They're stalked things. They often have fronds that look a lot like leaves with kind of fractal branching patterns on them. And the thing is they're found, sometimes geologists can figure out the environment that they were in and say, this is more than 200 meters deep because there's no sign of any waves. There's no storm damage down here, this kind of thing. They were more than 200 meters deep, so they're definitely not photosynthetic. These are animals and they're filter feeders. And we know sponges and corals and things are filter feeding animals. They're stuck to the spot. And little bits of carbon that come their way, they filter it out and that's what they're eating. So no predation involved in this beyond stuff just dies anyway. And it feels like a very gentle, rather beautiful, rather limited world, you might say. There's not a lot going on there. And something changes. Oxygen definitely changes during this period. Other things may have changed as well. But the next thing you really see in the fossil record is the Cambrian explosion. And what do we see there? We're now seeing animals that we would recognize. They've got eyes, they've got claws, they've got shells. They're plainly killing things or running away and hiding. And so we've gone from a rather gentle, but limited world to a rather vicious, unpleasant world that we recognize and which leads to kind of arms races, evolutionary arms races, which again is something that when we think about a nuclear arms race, we think, Jesus, we don't want to go there. It's not done anybody any good. In some ways, maybe it does do good.