Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
The discussion explores different aspects of biological evolution and the origins of life. Topics such as sexual selection, the importance of mitochondria, the role of programmed cell death, the significance of DNA and RNA, the variety of ways to store genetic information, and the dynamics of predator-prey relationships are discussed. The conversation touches on the idea that certain inventions or organisms may have had an advantage simply due to being the first or sticky, rather than being inherently superior. Additionally, the concept of biological "messiness" and the potential benefits of genetic diversity are considered. The transition from a gentle and limited world to a harsher and more complex world during the Cambrian explosion is also mentioned, highlighting the role of evolutionary arms races.

I don't want to make an argument for nuclear arms. But predation as a mechanism forces organisms to adapt to change to be better to escape or to kill. If you need to eat, then you've got to eat. And a cheetah's not gonna run at that speed unless it has to because the zebra is capable of escaping. So it leads to much greater feats of evolution than would ever have been possible without it. And in the end, to a much more beautiful world. And so it's not all bad by any means. But the thing is, you can't have this if you don't have an oxygenated planet because it's all in the end, it's about how much energy can you extract from the food you eat. And if you don't have an oxygenated planet, you can get about 10% out, not much more than that. And if you've got an oxygenated planet, you can get about 40% out. And that means you can have, instead of having one or two trophic levels, you can have five or six trophic levels. And that means things can eat things that eat other things and so on. And you've gone to a level of ecological complexity, which is completely impossible in the absence of oxygen. This reminds me of the Hunter S. Thompson quote, that for every moment of triumph, for every instance of beauty, many souls must be trampled. The history of life on earth, unfortunately, is that of violence. Just the trillions and trillions of multi-cell organisms that were murdered in the struggle for survival. It's a sorry statement, but yes, it's basically true. And that somehow is a catalyst from an evolutionary perspective for creativity, for creating more and more complex organisms that are better and better at surviving. I mean, survival of the fittest, if you just go back to that old phrase, means death of the weakest. Now, what's fit, what's weak, these are terms that don't have much intrinsic meaning. But the thing is, evolution only happens because of death. One way to die is the constraints, the scarcity of the resources in the environment. But that seems to be not nearly as good of a mechanism for death than other creatures roaming about in the environment. When I say environment, I mean like the static environment. But then there's the dynamic environment of bigger things trying to eat you and use you for your energy. It forces you to come up with a solution to your specific problem that is inventive and is new and hasn't been done before. And so it forces, I mean, literally change, literally evolution on populations. They have to become different. And it's interesting that humans have channeled that into more, I mean, I guess what humans are doing is they're inventing more productive and safe ways of doing that. You know, this whole idea of morality and all those kinds of things. I think they ultimately lead to competition versus violence, because I think violence can have a cold, brutal, inefficient aspect to it. But if you channel that into more controlled competition in the space of ideas, in the space of approaches to life, maybe you can be even more productive than evolution is. Because evolution is very wasteful. Like the amount of murder required to really test a good idea, genetically speaking, is just a lot. Many, many, many generations. Morally, we cannot base society on the way that evolution works. That's invention, right? But actually, in some respects, we do, which is to say, this is how science works. We have competing hypotheses that have to get better, otherwise they die. It's the way that society works. You know, in ancient Greece, we had the Athens and Sparta and city-states, and then we had the Renaissance and nation-states, and universities compete with each other. Tremendous amount of companies competing with each other all the time. It drives innovation. And if we want to do it without all the death that we see in nature, then we have to have some kind of societal-level control that says, well, there's some limits, guys, and these are what the limits are gonna be. And society as a whole has to say, right, we want to limit the amount of death here, so you can't do this and you can't do that. And who makes up these rules and how do we know? It's a tough thing, but it's basically trying to find a moral basis for avoiding the death of evolution and natural selection and keeping the innovation and the richness of it. And I forgot who said it, but that murder is illegal, probably Kurt Vonnegut, murder is illegal except when it's done to the sound of trumpets and at a large scale. So we still have wars, but we are struggling with this idea that murder is a bad thing. It's so interesting how we're channeling the best of the evolutionary imperative and trying to get rid of the stuff that's not productive. It's trying to almost accelerate evolution, the same kind of thing that makes evolution creative, we're trying to use that. I think we naturally do it. I mean, I don't think we can help ourselves do it. That's hard to know. Capitalism as a form is basically about competition and differential rewards. But society and we have a, I keep using this word moral obligation, but we cannot operate as a society if we go that way. It's interesting that we've had problems achieving balance. So for example, in the financial crash in 2009, do you let banks go to the wall or not this kind of question? In evolution, certainly you let them go to the wall. And in that sense, you don't need the regulation because they just die. Whereas if we, as a society, think about what's required for society as a whole, then you don't necessarily let them go to the wall, in which case you then have to impose some kind of regulation that the bankers themselves will in an evolutionary manner exploit. Yeah, we've been struggling with this kind of idea of capitalism, the cold brutality of capitalism that seems to create so much beautiful things in this world. And then the ideals of communism that seem to create so much brutal destruction in history. We struggle with ideas of, well, maybe we didn't do it right. How can we do things better? And then the ideas are the things we're playing with as opposed to people. If a PhD student has a bad idea, we don't shoot the PhD student. We just criticize their idea and hope they improve it. You have a very humane lab. Yeah, I don't know how you guys do it. The way I run things, it's always life and death. Okay, so it is interesting about humans that there is an inner sense of morality which begs the question of how did Homo sapiens evolve? If we think about the invention of, early invention of sex early invention of predation, what was the thing invented to make humans? What would you say? I mean, I suppose a couple of things I'd say. Number one is you don't have to wind the clock back very far five, six million years or so and let it run forwards again. And the chances of humans as we know them is not necessarily that high. Imagine as an alien, you find planet Earth and it's got everything apart from humans on it. It's an amazing, wonderful, marvelous planet but nothing that we would recognize as extremely intelligent life and space-faring civilization. So when we think about aliens, we're kind of after something like ourselves or after a space-faring civilization. We're not after zebras and giraffes and lions and things amazing though they are. But the additional kind of evolutionary steps to go from large complex mammals, monkeys let's say to humans doesn't strike me as that long a distance. It's all about the brain. And where's the brain and morality coming from? It seems to me to be all about groups, human groups and interactions between groups. The collective intelligence of it. Yes, the interactions really. And there's a guy at UCL called Mark Thomas who's done a lot of really beautiful work, I think, on this kind of question. So I talk to him every now and then. So my views are influenced by him. But a lot seems to depend on population density. That the more interactions you have going on between different groups, the more transfer of information, if you like, between groups of people moving from one group to another group, almost like lateral gene transfer in bacteria. The more expertise you're able to develop and maintain, the more culturally complex your society can become, and groups that have become detached, like on Easter Island, for example, very often degenerate in terms of the complexity of their civilization. Is that true for complex organisms in general? Population density is often productive. Really matters, but in human terms, I don't know what the actual factors were that were driving a large brain, but you know, you can talk about fire, you can talk about tool use, you can talk about language, and none of them seem to correlate especially well with the actual known trajectory of human evolution in terms of cave art and these kind of things. That seems to work much better just with population density and number of interactions between different groups. All of which is really about human interactions, human-human interactions, and the complexity of those. But population density is the thing that increases the number of interactions, but then there must have been inventions forced by that number of interactions that actually led to humans. So like Richard Wrangham talks about that it's basically the beta males had to beat up the alpha male. So that's what collaboration looks like, is they, when you're living together, they don't like the, our early ancestors don't like the dictatorial aspect of a single individual at the top of a tribe. So they learn to collaborate how to basically create a democracy of sorts. A democracy that prevents, minimizes, or lessens the amount of violence. Which essentially gives strength to the tribe and make the war between tribes versus the dictator. I mean, I think one of the most wonderful things about humans is we're all of those things. I mean, we are deeply social as a species. And we're also deeply selfish. And it seems to me the conflict between capitalism and communism, it's really just two aspects of human nature, both of which are. We have both. We have both. And we have a constant kind of vying between the two sides. We really do care about other people beyond our families, beyond our immediate people. We care about society and the society that we live in. And you could say that's a drawing towards socialism or communism. On the other side, we really do care about ourselves. We really do care about our families, about working for something that we gain from. And that's the capitalist side of it. They're both really deeply ingrained in human nature. In terms of violence and interactions between groups, yes, all this dynamic of, if you're interacting between groups, you can be certain that they're gonna be burning each other and all kinds of physical violent interactions as well, which will drive the kind of cleverness of how do you resist this? Let's build a tower. Let's, you know, what are we gonna do to prevent being overrun by those marauding gangs from over there? And you look outside humans and you look at chimps and bonobos and so on, and they're very, very different structures to society. Chimps tend to have an aggressive alpha male type structure and bonobos are, you know, there's basically a female society where the males are predominantly excluded and only brought in at the behest of the female. We have a lot in common with both of those groups. And there's, again, tension there. And probably chimps, more violence with bonobos, probably more sex. That's another tension. How serious do we wanna be? How much fun do we wanna be? Asking for a friend again, what do you think happened to Neanderthals? What did we cheeky humans do to the Neanderthals, the Homo sapiens? Do you think we murdered them? Was it, how do we murder them? How do we out-compete them? Or do we out-mate them? I don't know. I mean, I think there's unequivocal evidence that we mated with them. Yeah, we always try to mate with everything. Yes, pretty much. There's some interesting, the first sequences that came along were in mitochondrial DNA. And that was back to about 2002 or thereabouts. What was found was that Neanderthal mitochondrial DNA was very different to human mitochondria. That's so interesting. You could do a clock on it and it said the divergent state was about 600,000 years ago or something like that. So not so long ago. And then the first full genomes were sequenced maybe 10 years after that. And they showed plenty of signs of mating between. So the mitochondrial DNA effectively says no mating. And the nuclear genes say, yeah, lots of mating. But we don't know- How's that possible? Can you explain the difference between mitochondrial DNA and nucleus? I've talked before about the mitochondria, which are the power packs in cells. These are the paired down control units is their DNA. So it's passed on by the mother only.