Please provide a detailed (keep as much detail as possible) summary while keeping the following context in mind: 
The author discusses the process of writing and gives advice to young writers and scientists. They emphasize the importance of asking big, childlike questions and conveying information in a simple and accessible way. The editing process is seen as productive and necessary for improving the clarity and energy of the writing. In terms of career advice, the author encourages following one's interests rather than worrying about future career paths, emphasizing the need to live in the present and find fulfillment in the process rather than focusing solely on future goals.

So live in the moment and try and enjoy what you're doing. And that means really go to the, go to the themes that you're most interested in and try and follow them as well as you can. And that tends to pay back in surprising ways. I don't know if you've found this as well, but I found that people will help you often. If they see some light shining in the eye, you're excited about their subject and just want to talk about it. And they know that their friend in California has got a job coming up. They'll say, go for this. This guy's all right. And they'll use the network to help you out if you really care. And you're not gonna have a job two years down the line, but if what you really care about is what you're doing now, then it doesn't matter if you have a job in two years time or not. It'll work itself out if you've got the light in your eye. And so that's the only advice I can give. And most people probably drop out through that system because the fight is just not worth it for them. Yeah, when you have the light in your eye, when you have the excitement for the thing, what happens is you start to surround yourself with others that are interested in that same thing that also have the light. really are rigorous about this, because I think it does take, it doesn't, it takes effort to make. Oh, you've got to be obsessive. But if you're doing what you really love doing, then it's not work anymore, it's what you do. Yeah, but I also mean the surrounding yourself with other people that are obsessed about the same thing, because depending on the- Oh, that takes some work as well, yes, and luck. Finding the right, yeah, finding the right mentors, the collaborators, because I think one of the problem the PhD process is people are not careful enough in picking their mentors. Those are people, mentors and colleagues and so on, those are people who are gonna define the direction of your life, how much you love a thing, how much, I mean, the power of just like the few little conversations you have in the hallway, it's incredible. So you have to be a little bit careful in that. Sometimes you just get randomly almost assigned, really pursue, I suppose, the subject as much as you pursue the people that do that subject. So like both, the whole dance of it. They kind of go together, really. Yeah, they do, they really do. But take that part seriously. And probably in the way you're describing it, careful how you define success, because- You'll never find happiness in success, I don't think. There's a lovely quote from Robert Louis Stevenson, I think, who said, nothing in life is so disenchanting as attainment. Yeah, so I mean, in some sense, the true definition of success is getting to do today what you really enjoy doing, just what fills you with joy, and that's ultimately success. So success isn't the thing beyond the horizon, the big trophy, the financial- I think it's as close as we can get to happiness. That's not to say you're full of joy all the time, but it's as close as we can get to a sustained human happiness is by getting some fulfillment from what you're doing on a daily basis. And if what you're looking for is the world giving you the stamp of approval with a Nobel Prize or a fellowship or whatever it is, then I've known people like this who, they're eaten away by the anger, the kind of caustic resentment that they've not been awarded this prize that they deserve. And the other way, if you put too much value into those kinds of prizes and you win them, I've gotten a chance to see that it also, the more quote-unquote successful you are in that sense, the more you run the danger of growing an ego so big that you don't get to actually enjoy the beauty of this life. You start to believe that you figured it all out as opposed to, I think what ultimately the most fun thing is is being curious about everything around you, being constantly surprised, and these little moments of discovery, of enjoying beauty in small and big ways all around you. And I think the bigger your ego grows, the more you start to take yourself seriously, the less you're able to enjoy that. Amen to that, I couldn't agree more. So the summary from harmless to mostly harmless in Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, how would you try to summarize Earth? And if you were given, if you had to summarize the whole thing in a couple of sentences, and maybe throwing meaning of life in there, like what, why, why, why? Maybe, is that a defining thing about humans that we care about the meaning of the whole thing? I wonder if that should be part of the, these creatures seem to be very lost. Yes, they're always asking why. I mean, that's my defining question is why. It was, people used to make a joke, I have a small scar on my forehead from a climbing accident years ago. And the guy I was climbing with had dislodged a rock and he'd shouted something. He'd shouted below, I think, meaning that the rock was coming down. And I hadn't caught what he said, so I looked up and it smashed straight on my forehead. And everybody around me took the piss saying, he looked up to ask why. Yeah, but that's a human imperative. That's part of what it means to be human. Look up to the sky and ask why. So your question, define the earth. I'm not sure I can do that. I mean, the first word that comes to mind is living. I wouldn't like to say mostly living, but perhaps. Mostly living, well, it's interesting because if you were to write The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, I suppose, say our idea that we talked about, that bacteria is the most prominent form of life throughout the galaxy and the universe, I suppose that earth would be kind of unique and would require. It's always abundance in that case. Yeah. It's profligate, it's rich, it's enormously, enormously living. So how would you describe that it's not bacteria? It's. Eukaryotic. Yeah, eukaryotic. Well, I mean, that's the technical term, but it is basically, it's. Yeah, and then. How would I describe that? I've actually really struggled with that term because the word, I mean, there's few words quite as good as eukaryotic to put everybody off immediately. You start using words like that and they'll leave the room. Krebs cycle is another one that gets people to leave the room. But I've tried to think, is there another word for eukaryotic that I can use? And really the only word that I've been able to use is complex, complex cells, complex life and so on. And that word, it serves one immediate purpose, which is to convey an impression, but then it means so many different things to everybody that actually is lost immediately. And so it's a kind of. Well, that's a noticeable from the perspective of other planets, that is a noticeable phase transition of complexity is the eukaryotic. What about the harmless and the mostly harmless? Is that kind of? Probably accurate on a universal kind of scale. I don't think that humanity is in any danger of disturbing the universe at the moment. At the moment, which is why the mostly, we don't know. Depends what Elon is up to, depends how many rockets. I think. It'll be still even then a while, I think before we disturb the fabric of time and space. Was the aforementioned Andrej Karpathy, I think he summarized earth as a system where you hammer it with a bunch of photons. The input is like photons and the output is rockets. So if you just. Well, that's a hell of a lot of photons before it was a rocket. Yeah, but maybe in the span of the universe, it's not that much time. And so, and I do wonder what the future is, whether we're just in the early beginnings of this earth, which is important when you try to summarize it, or we're at the end, where humans have finally gained the ability to destroy the entirety of this beautiful project we've got going on. Now with nuclear weapons, with engineered viruses, with all those kinds of things. Or just inadvertently through global warming and pollution and so on. We're quite capable of that. I mean, we just need to pass the tipping point. I mean, I think we're more likely to do it inadvertently than through a nuclear war, which could happen at any time. But my fear is we just don't know where the tipping points are. And we kind of think we're smart enough to fix the problem quickly if we really need to. I think that's the overriding assumption that we're all right for now. Maybe in 20 years time, it's gonna be a calamitous problem. And then we'll really need to put some serious mental power into fixing it. Without seriously worrying that perhaps that is too late. And that however brilliant we are, we miss the boat. And just walk off the cliff. I don't know. I have optimism in humans being clever descendants. Oh, I have no doubt that we can fix the problem. But it's an urgent problem. And we need to fix it pretty sharpish. And I do have doubts about whether politically we are capable of coming together enough not just in any one country, but around the planet. I mean, I know we can do it, but do we have the will? Do we have the vision to accomplish it? That's what makes this whole ride fun. I don't know. Not only do we not know if we can handle the crises before us, we don't even know all the crises that are gonna be before us in the next 20 years. The ones I think that will most likely challenge us in the 21st century are the ones we don't even expect. People didn't expect World War II at the end of World War I. Some folks did, but not at the end of World War I. But by the late 1920s, I think people were beginning to worry about it. Yeah, no, there's always people worrying about everything. So if you focus on the thing that- People worry about, yes. Because there's a million things people worry about and 99.99999% of them don't come to be. Of course, the people that turn out to be right, they'll say, I knew all along, but that's not an accurate way of knowing what you could have predicted. I think, rationally speaking, you can worry about it, but nobody thought you could have another world war, the war to end all wars. Why would you have another war? And the idea of nuclear weapons, just technologically, is a very difficult thing to anticipate. To create a weapon that just jumps orders of magnitude and destructive capability. And of course, we can intuit all the things like engineered viruses, nanobots, artificial intelligence. Yes, all the different complicated global effects of global warming. So how that changes the allocation of resources, the flow of energy, the tension between countries, the military conflict between countries, the reallocation of power. Then looking at the role of China in this whole thing with Russia and growing influence of Africa and the weird dynamics of Europe. And then America falling apart through the political division fueled by recommender systems through Twitter and Facebook. The whole beautiful mess is just fun. And I think there's a lot of incredible engineers, incredible scientists, incredible human beings that while everyone is bickering and so on online for the fun of it on the weekends, they're actually trying to build solutions. And those are the people that will create something beautiful. At least I have, you know, that's the process of evolution. It's, there was, it all started with a Chuck Norris single cell organism that went out from the vents and was the parent to all of us. And for that guy or lady or both, I guess, is a big thank you and I can't wait to what happens next. And I'm glad there's incredible humans writing and studying it like you are, Nick. It's a huge honor that you would talk to me. This is fantastic. This is really amazing. I can't wait to read what you write next. Thank you for existing. And thank you for talking today. Thank you. Thanks for listening to this conversation with Nick Lane. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from Steve Jobs. I think the biggest innovations of the 21st century will be at the intersection of biology and technology. A new era is beginning. Thank you for listening. I hope to see you next time.