I've had the Apple Vision Pro for a week now, and I want to share my user experience and perspective so far with the device. I'll be talking design, battery life, how it feels wearing it, Vision OS, and sharing the things I really like, what's blown me away, and what I don't like. Does it live up to the hype, or do I regret my purchase? Hey everyone, it's Andrew, and welcome back to the channel. And here it is, here is the Apple Vision Pro. And getting right into it, let's talk design. Everything about this device screams premium. Every part of this has been built with the highest quality and care in mind. There's absolutely no denying it, it's one of the most beautiful pieces of tech that I've ever seen. From the accessories you get in the box, all the way to the front glass, it is top tier engineering. We'll have to see how it holds up long term, and honestly I'm blown away by this device. And even the things like the polishing cloth, the bands, everything is just so well built. And this little front glass cover is a really nice touch. Now putting it on, I actually prefer the solo band as opposed to the dual loop band. And the dual loop band actually does distribute weight a little bit better, but I've just felt that the snug on the back of the solo band, and the way I can crank it and kind of get the perfect fit for me, has been the better fit. My intervals for wearing it have been between 45 minutes to an hour. I have pushed it beyond that just to see how it would feel. It does start to get a little bit heavy after longer than that, in my opinion. Now onto the battery. The external battery is just weird. And when you connect it to Vision Pro, you actually have to twist it in, which is kind of odd. I usually have it in my pocket or just beside me when I'm using Vision Pro. And honestly the battery isn't great, but usually I'm only going to be using this at home unless I'm on a plane. So I'm pretty okay with it. And there's really nice battery indicators as your battery's dying, so you're well aware of where you're at in your battery life. Now I do have the Belkin holder for the battery. It's goofy. I don't think I'm going to use it. I bought it thinking that it'd be useful, but I just haven't really used it and I don't think I'm going to keep it. Now once you actually get the device on and you start using Vision OS, there is so much to talk about. Optic ID is fantastic. I love the UI of the apps. The hand and eye tracking actually feels like magic and you get used to it very quickly. And seriously, just being able to look at something to either close or expand it and then move my finger to do that, it's pretty cool. And I can see how this is a step in the right direction of spatial computing and how the future is going to look like with these kind of devices. Now the field of view is good, but it's not great. The Verge actually demonstrated correctly in their render of what the field of view is like. Really, when you get lost into whatever you're watching or doing something, it goes away and you don't really think about it. Environments are absolutely breathtaking and one of my favorite parts to just look at, look all around in a 360 view and look at Mount Hood or be on the moon, it really feels like you're there. Most of the apps that I've used are just normal Apple apps like podcasts, music, notes, and messages. Apps that aren't Vision OS apps are in a compatible folder, which kind of stinks, it's a little bit annoying, and you can't customize your home screen. Another thing that's a little bit disappointing for me is some of the compatible apps for Vision Pro and the quality of the videos for ESPN Plus right now is 1080p and in my opinion, watching my TV is a better experience than watching that on Vision OS. Also, YouTube was another big app that decided not to make a Vision Pro app and you can access it on Safari, but with eye tracking, there's so much to look at on Safari. I think the system gets a little bit confused and honestly, my eyes are kind of going all over the place and so I found it a little bit difficult to tap on things I wanted to tap on and look at. It's not a great experience to watch YouTube either. I will say the apps intended for Vision Pro are excellent and being able to have multiple windows open all over the place is super cool. At first, Vision Pro is a little bit overwhelming and overstimulating because there's so much you can do and so much going on because your eyes are basically your mouse and I did get some eye and neck fatigue, but I was using it like crazy, so I think it's a little bit expected. Vision OS has been a bit buggy and I think it's expected. It's the first version of Vision OS that we're seeing and we can now report bugs to Apple and they can improve the software. Another thing that I think does not live up to the hype is pass-through. It's really good, but it's not great and what Apple shows as pass-through on their ads is not what you experience when you're using Vision Pro. I thought it'd be crystal clear whenever I look at the real world and it's not. The colors are a little bit muted. It's a little bit hazy. I am hopeful that this is something software related that it will improve, but if not, that will be disappointing to look through for many years to come that I'll be having this and I will prefer to be in an environment mode rather than AR. What do you guys think of the eyes? I don't think they look that bad. By far my favorite thing to do on Vision Pro has been the immersive experiences and 3D movies. Apple TV has four immersive shows right now and I'm excited actually because new episodes are going to come out. They are absolutely breathtaking and I can't even exaggerate how good it is. It is just so good. It is so, so well done. Your eyes don't believe it. Each one of them has a unique way of showing off Vision Pro. Being able to see a T-Rex up close or a rhinoceros being so close it feels like you're touching it. There's this floating over the mountains of Norway where it feels like you're just floating in the sky. It's crazy. And Alicia Keys little rehearsal thing, it's like you're literally there. You could touch her or talk to her and it's just crazy how well done it is. The next thing that really blew me away was 3D movies and there's a theater mode that literally you can set it up to where you're in a movie theater and depending on where you want to sit in the movie theater, it will do that. I currently started watching Dune, a movie that I didn't see in theaters and if you've watched Dune, you know that it's a crazy sci-fi epic that is just so large in scale. It's meant to be watched on the big screen and I actually got to experience that and not have to go to a movie theater. Spatial video also blew me away. I have a 15 Pro Max so I've been taking spatial videos and I took one of my son where he's kind of playing in a field and then runs at me and gives me a hug and it gets so close. Like I wanted to hug him like he was right there. It just felt so good to relive that moment again. This is just a quick test of spatial video. So obviously you won't be able to see it in 3D but the product that was sent to me, maybe I'll do unboxings like this, I don't know if the quality is going to be good or not and this is how the audio sounds from a spatial video. More to come on this one. Another thing that has blown me away is spatial audio. It has been excellent, excellent quality. I would say on the level of AirPods and AirPods Max, like it is really good. It might not get as loud, like as punchy because it's not in your ear but it is so immersive. When you're in an environment, it'll actually change the sound so you can hear like wind or trees rustling and it's just so cool and it feels like you're in a different place. I'm also really glad that a lot of Bluetooth devices are compatible with Vision Pro. So like a PS5 controller can be used for games and I've played a little bit of Asphalt 8 and it's actually really cool. My AirPods Pro 2 connect, not the ones with lossless. I didn't get those ones. I got it before the one with USB-C came out but they sound great. My magic trackpad can be used to scroll around and my new Keychron keyboard that Keychron sent to me, thank you guys. I can use that to type out in Apple Notes or search things and just look up things and have a physical keyboard with me while I'm using Vision Pro. I plan to do a full video of accessories so make sure to sub for that. And also really quick, just speaking about the digital keyboard that Vision Pro has, I don't like it. It's really hard to punch the different letters. I have found it more useful to do dictation, to quickly search for something or type something like a message or ask Siri to do it. You can also share your Mac display so your Mac is actually showing in Vision Pro. I can use my studio display right here in Vision Pro and I have access to everything. Now onto persona, it's goofy but I know it's me but it doesn't look like me and it's funny. FaceTiming friends and family has been a lot of fun to get their reaction because when they look at me while I'm in Vision Pro, they'll see my persona on their screen. Right now, persona, it's a bit of a joke but I think it's a really cool tech that just needs a little bit more time to be refined. I think in many ways, Vision Pro really exceeds my expectations. Now it's still really freaking expensive and so it's not a product that I'm recommending to buy. I don't think anyone is questioning how good Vision Pro is but for $3,500, I do think some things need to improve and they should be a lot better. Pass-through, if I'm paying this much, it should be a lot better. I also think Vision OS needs to improve as well. I should be able to customize my apps. I should have more apps and that's not on Vision Pro, that's on developers. Something that has blown me away and really makes me want to keep it is the immersive experiences. This is four shows that Apple's made and I hope that they have more planned in the future. I'm really banking on them making a show about space and just being able to like be really close to the sun or Jupiter or go to another galaxy. That would be absolutely insane. So I'm looking forward to stuff like that. The quality of the headphones, the build quality, just how it looks, the feeling, it's just the magic of being able to pinch and touch and look and zoom and just do everything. It's just incredible and so my recommendation is if you're in the US, go to an Apple store and just check it out. Let the experience overtake you and then make your decision. If you're outside the US, hopefully it comes in I think June or July to your country. So definitely, definitely go to an Apple store and check it out there too. I'm personally not having any buyer's remorse or any regrets or anything like that. I think what I'm most curious about is what I'll think of Vision Pro in six months to a year from now. So make sure to subscribe to the channel for those longer term perspectives. If you have any questions about Vision Pro, let me know in the comments below and I'll try to answer them. Maybe do a follow up video with your questions. As always guys, thanks for watching. God bless and I will see you on the next video.