 within minutes of eating anything. Molecules of that food are flowing through every cell in your body where your DNA lies unfolded. These are your genes and the food molecules wash over your DNA and they turn genes on, they turn genes off, they induce enzymes, they shut enzymes down. In this information age, we can't be amazed or surprised that food brings in not only nutrients, it brings in information. I've been able to partner with Mindvalley to present you guys free masterclasses between 60 and 90 minutes covering mind, body, soul, relationships, and conscious entrepreneurship taught by spiritual masters, yogis, spiritual thought leaders, and bestselling authors. Just head over to nextlevelsoul.com forward slash free. I'd like to welcome to the show Dr. Michael Klapper. How are you doing, Dr. Klapper? I'm just fine today. How are you doing today? I'm good, my friend. Thank you so much for coming on the show. I am a fan of your work. I've seen you on many of the documentaries that I've watched over the years in regards to plant-based diets and health and all of that stuff. And it's a passion of mine. And many of my listeners know that I've been a, I've been plant-based for over 10 years now. God, geez, almost 10 years I've been doing it. And I was a hardcore meat eater, Cuban guy eating pork and steaks and all that kind of stuff before. A lot of Burger King, a lot of Taco Bell back in the day. But then I decided to go plant based and it's, I've never looked back. So I wanted to kind of dive into your reasoning. You're one of the original voices in this movement back from the early eighties. So when and why did you decide to go plant-based? Oh, well, like you, I grew up eating the standard American diet until I was 34. I was, I had become a physician again, eating the usual stuff and again, the hospital cafeteria there. But I was a, well, actually I'd been in general practice for six years and I got so frustrated because my patients were just getting fatter and sicker and having heart attacks and strokes. And I didn't know what to tell them. I didn't know anything about nutrition. And I was saying that if I can't help these people, then I'm leaving. And I left general practice to become an anesthesiologist. And I was a resident in anesthesia in Vancouver, BC, and I was on the cardiovascular anesthesia service. And day after day, I'm putting people to sleep and I'm watching surgeons open their chest and out of their arteries and their heart, the coronary arteries pulling this yellow greasy gut called atherosclerosis that was leading to the heart attacks and strokes. And this was 1980 and I, 1981. And I already had read studies showing that this is basically the fat of the animal these people are eating. And this stuff can be melted away. This stuff is reversible with a plant-based diet. 1977, the first report came out and I was aware of this. And I was acutely aware because my father died of clogged arteries. And I know I had those genes. And unless I changed my diet, I knew I was going to be laying on an operating table with that striker saw going up my sternum. I sure didn't want that. And so, I adopted a whole food, plant-based diet and started eating the bean chili instead of the beef chili. It wasn't that creative sacrifice. Well, my body just loved it. Within 12 weeks, a 20-pound spare tire of fat melted off my waist. My high blood pressure went to normal. My high cholesterol went to normal. I felt great waking up in a nice lean body every day. And at that point, I realized I had the key not only to my own health, but to all those poor patients I left behind in general practice. Now, I knew what to tell them. And I realized that I did not want to be an anesthesiologist for my career and spend my time literally putting people to sleep. I'd rather go back to general practice and help them wake up. And so, I did. Now, with six months left in my anesthesia residency, much to the dismay of my parents, I went back to general practice. But now, I knew what to tell my patients. And to help them make that transition to a plant-based diet, I found people in my area that could give plant-based cooking lessons. And I sent the patients there. And those who were able to adopt the plant-based diet experienced the same wonderful effects. They lost weight. Their high blood pressure came down. And it wasn't long before I was getting calls from my patients who had had high blood pressure. Doc, I'm standing up and getting lightheaded because they were on these blood pressure pills that was dropping their pressures now too low. They no longer had high blood pressure. So, I said those faithful words that I was told never to utter. Stop your blood pressure pills. You don't have high blood pressure. You're going to pass out if you keep doing this. Well, I looked around. I thought there was going to be a puff of smoke. And the ghost of my internal medicine professor would appear, say, what did you say? Stop their blood pressure pills. Nobody gets out. This is a lifetime medication. Hand in your stethoscope. And well, of course, no such thing happened. And these people were no longer had high blood pressure. And it wasn't long before I was getting similar calls from my patients with diabetes, who I had had on 20, 30 units of insulin. They're calling me, said, my blood pressure, my blood sugar is going down to 40 and 50. And I said, you know, cut your insulin in a half. And they did. And their blood sugar is still going down and too low. And so, I said, cut it in half again. Then finally, I said those faithful words to them. Stop your insulin. You don't have type 2 diabetes anymore. Looked around for the puff of smoke. It didn't appear. And I realized what a powerful tool this is. These dreadful degenerative diseases to plague so many Americans. And it reduces the doctor to managing their chronic disease. I'll manage your high blood pressure. I'll manage your diabetes. I didn't go to medicine to manage chronic disease. I wanted to cure people. And I realized these are reversible diseases. Why didn't somebody tell me this in medical school? Well, you know, you can't unring the bell. You know, once you look behind the curtain, you can't pretend you don't know what's behind the curtain. At this point, how could I practice medicine any other way? So, I became an official plant-based physician in 1981. And haven't looked back. I'm the happiest doctor I know. My patients get healthy right before my eyes. And now we're trying to teach young medical students this very same reality. And that's a bit of another story here through our moving medicine forward initiative. But every doctor should know this. And I shouldn't have to be telling these students. It should be part of the medical school curriculum. What a powerful tool this is. It's unethical to withhold this from our patients. We owe our patients this information. So, that's how I became a plant-based physician and how I came to do what we're doing today. So, I have to ask you though, as a doctor, why is the, why don't doctors know more about, this is the problem I have. I have a lot of doctors in my family. So, I, and I get into arguments with them sometimes because there's a lot of dogma attached into, in medicine and in medical school. And they're like, oh, that's anecdotal or this or that. And you're like, at a certain point, it's been like when you were doing it, it could have been, there was an argument to be had that was anecdotal. It's been what, 40 years since then? At this point in the game, everyone understands that a steak and a salad, one, one's going to keep you alive longer than the other one, generally speaking on a long-term basis. So, why hasn't the medical establishment come to grips with this for God's sakes? Oh, it's, it's embarrassing. It's this huge chasm for my, for profession who, the medical science is so powerful. We can identify a genetic mismatch on gene A21, chromosome 14. Boy, we can implement that with precision. But the thought that cheeseburgers and pepperoni peaches might be clogging up our patient's arteries. Somehow, this is too abstruse a concept for my colleagues to grasp. Why is this? Nutrition is not taught in medical school. We just blow right past it. We're right into drugs and surgery. And because doctors don't know anything about nutrition, they don't respect nutrition. Ah, let them eat whatever they want. Doesn't make any difference. And they're eating the same foods themselves. They're eating the burgers in the cafeteria. They're eating the steaks and lobsters out in the restaurant. They're not going to tell their patients not to eat it. And without getting too conspiratorial here, the medical school curricula that the students are exposed to are hugely influenced by the drug companies. The meat and dairy industries have input here. There's a huge juggernaut to keep the American diet going just as it is. And so the medical curriculum folks, they don't want to stir up that hornet's nest. It's easier just to focus on the things they know, the drugs and the surgery. But meanwhile, real people are dying on real operating tables from operations they don't need. It's unethical to withhold this information from our patients. But as I said, we're trying to reach the medical students before pharmacosclerosis sets into their brains. Because once that happens, they become very resistant. But the students now are far more open to this. It's turning out as I'm lecturing the med students, that in every med school class now, there are 20, 30, 40 students. They've seen films like Forks Over Knives. They've seen What the Hell. They've seen Conspiracy. The light's on. And the students, they're hungry for this knowledge, so to speak. And so they're very receptive to this. And through our Moving Medicine Forward initiative, we are assembling documentation for these students, a syllabus of five or eight or 10 studies on each of high blood pressure, diabetes, autoimmune diseases, gastrointestinal diseases, that they can take to their professors, showing there's solid evidence in the medical literature, plus a series of questions to ask your professors in diabetes clinic. Ask your professor, do you think this patient's diet had anything to do with their obesity and their type 2 diabetes? In hypertension clinic, ask your professor, do you think this patient's diet with all this salt and fat in it has anything to do with this high blood pressure doctor? And we started, we want to light a fire from the bottom up, from the students through the professors, till finally it becomes unignorable. And so it's like turning an ocean liner. It's slow work, but we have no choice. We have to do this. Our profession is very derelict in its education and its service to our patients. So long road, but we're getting there day by day. Yeah. And it is something that I think that it is inevitable. I can't say the word. Inevitable. Because it is, the new generations are coming up more educated. There are those kind of films. There are those, the information's out there. It's in the Zeitgeist. I have a lot of spiritual teachers on the show and I always tell them in the seventies, meditation was considered woo-woo. And now we have CEOs and everybody understands the physical benefits of just meditation. Take the spirituality out of it, just pure physical health benefits of something like meditation. So, and now everyone's on board with that. So now, and even plant-based diets with the faux meats, which aren't the greatest, but they're also, they're a gap. They're a bridge. Exactly. I'm very grateful for that. And if they can get Joe six-pack meat-eating American to put that burger in his mouth and say, Ooh, I could eat that. That's not bad. That's plant-based. I could eat that. You've opened the door in his mind a little bit to plant-based nutrition, plant-based diets. And then, and nowadays the food is so delicious. That's plant-based there and all the different international cuisines, the Asian curries and the stir fries and the Mexican chilies. And it's not a sacrifice and it's absolutely the healthiest way to eat. We are plant eating hominids. Right. Exactly. And the image of the vegan from the sixties and seventies, which are these emaciated, you know, really thin unhealthy people. There was a lack of education back then too. Cause if you eat just iceberg lettuce all day, you're going to die. That's what we were told. Absolutely. Right. But really, but the film, the game changers shows all these magnificent vegan athletes that are doing these fabulous feats of strength and endurance really blows that out of the water. We, again, you know, ask any gorilla, ask any Buffalo, any elephant, you know, we, we, we need, I don't need to be bold to be as strong as one. That's for sure. Absolutely. So, so I wanted to ask you, so when you made your change, cause.