I did it, there was there was no beyond the meat. There was no nobody. It was horrible. It was really rough. I can only imagine when you did it. So what was the biggest challenge? Well, I have to admit, I had meat cravings for years after after I stopped eating it. And I went back to eating fish once or twice. Didn't feel good. I stopped that. But, you know, if you've been raised to eat meat two, three times a since infancy, I mean, at age six months of age, with all the love in the parents' hearts, the baby still nursing on the breast. But that bottle of baby chicken and baby lamb and baby turkey is opened up. And from that point on, three times a day, animal flesh is slathered on the child's intestine all through infancy and childhood and adolescence and puberty and your teens and your 20s and 30s. You eat animal flesh three times a day for 30 years. Your your body will set enzymes in your liver that is expecting all that cholesterol and animal protein coming up. And if you suddenly stop it, the you got to make all your own carnitine and creatine. It was coming in preformed three times a day from a meat based diet. Now you got to make all your own. Most people can make their transition, but some folks, it may take them a few months to gear up their enzymes and change their microbiome over. And during that time, if they're if they're levels of carnitine, creatine, myoglobin all those animal based nutrients start to start to fall. Then they eat some meat. And if all that stuff floods through their tissues again, they feel better. Oh, I'm a carnivore. But but that is not normal human physiology. That is an acquired dependency created by feeding a human infant animal flesh three times a day since infancy. No other primate does that. But we spawn this dependency. And when people transition out of it, most folks can make a transition. Well, but some folks will have cravings for meat for quite a while. And if so, they should eat a little piece once a week or twice medicinally for a few months and and stretch out the intervals. Some people may need to wean off of it. And I was one of those folks for the but my disgust level. I could I'm a scuba diver. And I was in Hawaii and I would I would scuba dive in and the fish would come up to me and check me out. And they've got personalities and curiosity. I couldn't eat them because I knew I knew them. So so at that point, I just left it behind me. Cravings faded away. But that was a bit of of an issue. And then socially, when I would go out with friends and someone would make a few comments, you're still eating that rabbit food or whatever. But after a while, you know, they're not paying my medical bills. You know, and and I know I have to answer to the animals. I have to answer to the children because we're ripping off their futures with all these this animal based diet. I have to answer to the planet as we're as we're cutting down the forest to make cropland and grazing land for beef. I just can't contribute to that any longer. And so I don't care. Let them make their comments at lunch. And after a while, you know, I realize, you know, it's nobody's business. What I order for lunch. And I just went on and got leaner and healthier. And after a while, people just that's what Michael eats. And it became not a problem. Good, good, good. Now, there's another thing I always get asked. Where do you get your protein? Where do you how are you surviving? Where do you are you for you? Worried about nutrients like you? Are you getting enough? And like it's so fascinating to me because I look I'm like, do I look like I don't get enough protein? I mean, am I emaciated? Like so that's always the most ignorant of the questions that people ask is, you know, is the protein. So are you I'm going to ask it. Are you worried about where you're getting your protein from? Are you worried about where you're getting your nutrients from? Absolutely not. Again, ask any buffalo, ask any elephant where you get your protein. It's in the grains and the legumes and the grasses that grow out of the ground. That's where all protein comes from. Even lions and tigers as they eat other animals. The animal's protein came from them, from the ground. Or it all comes from the plants. And and especially the legume family beans, peas, chickpeas, lentils. They're full of protein. And and I make sure during my eating week, most nights we'll have something from the legume family, a cup of lentil stew, a bean burrito, a hummus sandwich. We make big salads every day and open up a can of chickpeas or beans and pop it on the salad there. And we get plenty of protein there. The grains, the quinoa, millet, buckwheat, they're full of protein. It turns out when you do the nutritional analysis that if you are eating 2000 calories of whole plant food, not not granola bars, but whole plant foods, you can't help but getting 50, 60 grams of high grade protein. It's in it's in the rice and beans and grains and fruits and veggies. It's in there. It really isn't an issue. And in 40 years of doing plant based medicine now, never once have I written the diagnosis protein deficiency on anybody's medical chart. It just it just doesn't happen. Assuming, you know, they're not anorexic, you know, assuming they're actually eating the food that they're going to get enough protein. It's an automatic. So again, that's why a whole food plant based diet and I want to process a food heavy diet is is the key to getting enough protein, not an issue. The only nutrient we have to be concerned about is vitamin B12. Aha. It's not a natural diet. If you got to take a B12 supplement. No, it is a natural diet. The the B12 comes from from the natural world. When we were made by microbes that live in the soil, live in the waters. And a million years ago, when we were eating earth leading earth connected lives and we would forage all day and pulling up roots and tubers and eating it, we would get B12 on the surface of the vegetables. When we were thirsty, we would drink out of streams. We get B12. We would get it from the same place that the that the deer in the antelope get their B12 today. But thanks to modern sanitation, which I'm all for the nobody's drinking out of streams anymore. Nobody's eating unwashed vegetables. And and in that bargain of of clean drinking water, we've given away our natural B12 sources. So a couple of times a week, we'll take a multivitamin. It's got some B12 in it or we'll have some soy milk that's added B12. It's not an issue. Just a deference to modern life. We're not nobody's leading. Nobody's leading natural lives these days. None of the food is what our caveman ancestors used to eat. So so it's a it's a trade off. I'm happy to make. Other than that, there is no nutrient you can't get from a whole food plant based diet now and vitamin D, of course, because vitamin D comes from the sun and the sun. But nobody's out in the sun anymore. No one's out there enough. Yeah. So I take some slow vitamin D and my multivitamin a couple of times a week as well. Yes. But then again, that's not a nutritional deficiency. That's a lifestyle deficiency. Exactly. Exactly. Now, you mentioned granola bars. I've heard you say before that you can't get healthy eating granola bars. But sir, I have to tell granola bars are as healthy as they come. I've seen I saw hippies do it in the 60s and the 70s. What do you mean? Granola bars aren't healthy, sir. Right. And no aspersions on granola bars, per se. That's kind of symbolic for all the sure the process sugary junk foods that that are vegan, but are just a big jolt of process dextrose and fructose and other sugars. And what's holding the granola bar together is usually high fructose corn syrup. And these are oats that are usually have been toasted and oxidized and held together with with some sticky, sugary syrup that really just spikes up your sugar for no good reason and makes a big insulin spike necessary. It's really an unhealthy diet. I've never seen any gorillas eating granola bars there. And so it's only because they're just highly processed, highly sugary stuff. But the oats themselves, the healthiest thing in there, they're OK. But they have smoke meal in the morning. Get your oats that way. And if I'm because I've made my own granola at home because I'm a hippie, apparently, but but I do it very, you know, just roast them and put some nuts in, put some raisins in, maybe sprinkle them around with a little bit of maybe a little bit of maple syrup, just a little bit to give a little something. But other than that, something simple. It is fair enough. And there's not like a thousand things in it as well. And that's the other thing. A lot of a lot of people think that you have to be perfect when eating. Like you, you can't go off the reservation a little bit here or a little bit there or treat yourself here or there. It and that's something that when I first started, I was very militant about it. You know, and I was like, no, I can't do it. Like you got to loosen up a little bit. But to a certain extent, you just say, you know, look, if you're at a party, there's a cake and I'll take a piece of cake or, you know, if there's a cookie, you're not. You're good. You can't eat perfect all the time. But within reason, is that a fair statement? Absolutely. As long as the majority of food going down your gullet, you know, you could recognize it growing in the garden. Oh, there's a tomato. There's a cucumber. As long as it's real whole plant food for the majority of your of your eating week. If during that eating week, again, you have some processed food or the sugary dessert, you know, lightning won't come down and strike you dead there. So relax. We're not here to suffer. We're not here to eating should not be an anxiety producing event. You know, it should be a joyous nourishment of your spirit as well as your body. And you do the best you can. It's a 21st century. We're all doing the best we can. The body's pretty forgiving as long as you don't abuse it. I mean, if most people eat meat most of their lives and they still live until 60s, 70s and even sometimes 80s with a lot of health issues, the body's a fairly resilient organism. It is amazing to me that the constant item of wonder to me the way we could abuse it. And but eventually these diseases show up and we're seeing strokes in younger people was in colon cancer and younger Alzheimer's and Alzheimer's. None of this should be happening. And that that is largely due, again, to the as you're implying, it's the whole food stream day after day. And if it's loaded with meat and dairy and oil and sugars, you're going to spawn some diseases off of that. That's the standard American diet. But it's a whole food plant based diet day after day after day. And if every once in a while there's a sugary dessert in there, again, your body's pretty tolerant of that kind of food stream. So let me ask you in regards to fats, because fats also have been demonized for a lot for a long time as well. Obviously, animal fats, not good, but there are whole food fats like avocado that that is natural. But then the processed olive oil, which has been taught it as being a health food, even. Can you talk a little bit about what kind of fats and what the amounts of fats that we should be taking in? Sure. Fats are absolutely essential. I'm not anti-fat. Our hormones are made of fat. Our skin oils are made of fats. Our brain cells are wrapped in fat. You need some fat every day. But as you implied, the plea is get them out of whole plant foods, out of avocados and walnuts and flaxseeds and olives. Why is that better than getting it out of a bottle of olive oil? Because when you eat an olive or a piece of coconut or a walnut, the micro droplets of olive oil or coconut oil are firmly attached to the plant fiber of the olive, of the walnut, of the coconut. And when you chew up that piece of olive and goes down your intestine, takes hours for your digestive enzymes to get into that piece of olive for the amylase enzymes to start breaking down the carbohydrates that are holding the micro drop of olive oil. Then the lipase.