user:
Please turn the following into an article including all the key ideas: 
We need to restart the great adventure of nuclear power in France. France is building six new nuclear reactors, maybe even 14. And the United States, the world's biggest producer of atomic energy, wants to save the climate with new nuclear power plants. We have some really ambitious net zero goals for the climate and nuclear power is the clean option for that. No other country is currently building more nuclear reactors than China. The Chinese are really looking for energy wherever they can find it. And 12 years after the Fukushima disaster, even Japan wants to build new reactors. While Germany is phasing out nuclear power, other countries are ramping up their capacity. Why? Is saving the planet without atomic energy possible? Maybe one country or another can do it. But as a planet, we can't live without it and we probably have to grow it pretty significantly. But who can still build nuclear power plants today? And at what price? We take a trip to find out. Our first stop is Washington, D.C., where the U.S. is facing a huge political challenge. As one of the world's top emitters of greenhouse gases, it wants to, it has to, clean up its act. The aim is to switch to clean electricity production within about 10 years. The U.S. Department of Energy is responsible for this Herculean task. In the context of the size and scale and variability of the grids around the United States, making sure that the grid is reliable across all of those places does in many places require a real significant amount of firm, like, ready-to-roll, 24-7 baseload energy. And right now a lot of that is provided by unabated fossils. Catherine Hough heads the Office of Nuclear Energy. In the search for alternatives to gas and coal, the U.S. Department of Energy has been looking back. A successful experiment in Idaho over 70 years ago could prove to be a solution for the future. So we have come to a place today where hope was born. On this very spot, the United States produced the world's first electricity from nuclear energy. On December 20, 1951, a reactor first generated enough electricity to light up four light bulbs. Nuclear has been a stalwart part of about 20 percent of our electric grid, creating a backbone of clean, firm power. And we probably have to grow it pretty significantly, probably double or possibly triple the amount. A new reactor has just been added to the grid in Georgia, and a second is planned soon. The United States is still counting on nuclear power. The fact that they have more and more atomic waste piling up leaves them undeterred. Spent nuclear fuel is important to manage responsibly. It does need to be disposed of eventually, but there are technological solutions. We see Finland making real progress, almost ready to begin operating their repository. And those activities give us real confidence that this is a solved challenge. In the U.S., nuclear power is booming again, with great hope being placed in SMRs, or small modular reactors. The idea is to use known technology and essentially shrink it. The new reactors will be prefabricated in factories, similar to ready-made homes. And the real economic promise and the readiness to commercialize that new generation is hitting right now, right alongside the sort of challenges around climate and the acknowledgment of the importance of energy security. All of these things are converging in a moment where, you know, I hope that the industry can meet it. The U.S. isn't the only country putting its faith in these compact nuclear power plants. Back to Europe. Poland has so far lagged behind when it comes to generating clean, carbon-neutral electricity. Poland is in a very difficult situation, because we have a high dependency on coal. Of course, we invest in renewables, but this is not the energy source that can be stable energy at any time. We believe that the best way to change this energy mix is to deploy nuclear energy plants across the Poland. Mariusz Elniewski is the press spokesman for Orlen Synthos Green Energy. There aren't yet any nuclear power plants in Poland. The company is planning to install a whole fleet of SMRs. Elniewski wants to show us where one of these small reactors will be installed. We drive to Ostrovenka, two hours northeast of Warsaw. With SMRs, you can have it quicker, because, for example, in case of BWX-300, the construction phase is going to have 24 and 36 months, so it can be deployed much faster than a large nuclear power plant. On the other hand, the scale of these investments allows to be involved by new type of investors, for example, the private companies like Synthos or PK in Orlen. Energy generation is at the heart of the local economy in Ostrovenka. So far, it's been produced by burning coal. Existing coal-fired plants should be shut down successfully in the coming decades. They need to be replaced with a new source of energy. According to Orlen Synthos Green Energy, atomic energy can supply the necessary power. The first SMR could be built in the nearby area. The advantage of these small nuclear power plants is that they can generate a comparable amount of electricity as coal-fired plants. So the local grid can still be used. Poland is working together on this nuclear power plant with the energy company OPG in Toronto. The Canadians will be the first worldwide to deploy this type of SMR. OPG, which already started preparation work and licensing process, plans to have its SMR ready in 2028. We believe that the first SMR in Poland can be ready a year or two later. The first SMR is set to be built here before 2030 with others to follow suit. And Poland is not the only newcomer to nuclear power. We're on the Turkish Mediterranean coast. Here a remarkable project is underway. The Akuyu nuclear power plant is expected to provide 10 percent of Turkey's electricity in the future. We hope that the first reactor will be in operation by the end of 2023 and produce electricity from then on. What's unusual here is that four reactors are being built simultaneously, all with the same technology. It's outpacing projects in Europe and the US. Today there are 422 reactors in operation worldwide and 57 under construction. 25 percent of the European Union's electricity comes from nuclear power. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's speech at a ceremony in spring 2023 celebrated a huge milestone. It marked the first time nuclear fuel was delivered to Turkey. And a special guest joined online. The Russian President, my dear friend, Mr. Putin. Congratulations on this momentous achievement. Personally and in the name of my country, I would like to thank Mr. Putin and all the authorities of the Russian Federation who have supported our project from the start. The nuclear power plant is being built in Turkey but belongs to Russia. The Russian state-owned nuclear power company Rosatom has invested $20 billion. It planned and is currently building the nuclear power plant and will later operate it. Even the atomic waste will be transported to Russia at the end. Turkey will simply buy the electricity at a fixed price. It's going to be a Russian plant on Turkish territory and let's remember that Turkey is a NATO member. So having this piece of critical infrastructure on the territory of a NATO member is something that a lot of Western experts think might be, well, troublesome. Jasper Szuleski is a professor of international climate governance and a sought-after expert on Russian energy policy. So far nobody was outspoken enough to really question this project and to stop it. So most likely this project is simply going to move forward as if the geopolitical situation didn't change. Turkey has tried to build nuclear power plants in the past but without success. This time it seems to be working, thanks to help from Russia. Every country is going to have to make that choice for themselves, right? Some partnerships are strong enough that, you know, you can trust your neighbors and partners to be, you know, a helper in the management of your energy technologies. But, you know, we certainly see, we have a recognition of how, for example, Russia in its invasion of Ukraine has weaponized energy dependency. And I think that's something that every country is thinking about today in terms of how they plan the control that they have over their own energy supply. But what kind of consequences could it have for Turkey? And how might Russia misuse the power plant? I mean, what kind of power Russia can exercise over a plant like the one in Turkey, that's still being debated. So you can have experts who are more, well, optimistic. However, if you, especially in the light of what has been happening last year, so in 2022, with the energy sector in the context of the war in Ukraine, you know that things that do not seem plausible right now might actually become reality very soon. If there was some unannounced failure in the reactor, that might actually knock out the entire power system in Turkey, so cause a blackout. And that's a very, very big, well, weapon that Russia might be wielding. We have learned to control the energy of the atom. Ukrainian state-owned company Rosatom is active worldwide and is huge in the nuclear power business. Rosatom. I would say that almost a half of the market is controlled by Russia. So that's really, I mean, it's the largest player out there. And that combines all the different elements, so reactor design and construction, but also fuel, which is a very profitable business. So taken together, Russia is really the largest player in the international nuclear market. Russia is building new reactors all around the world. In China, Bangladesh, India, Iran, Egypt and Turkey, as well as in Hungary and Slovakia. And there have been talks with other nations. Rosatom has been quite immune to external shocks. So we didn't see any influence of the Fukushima disaster on its global portfolio. We also didn't see a decline of investments after the 2014 conflict with Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. And right now we are also not seeing that much of a rollback in terms of investments outside Europe after the war in Ukraine started. How can this be possible? Sanctions have been widely imposed on the Russian energy sector. How did Rosatom remain unaffected? That's a question we'll return to later. Our journey continues. What we want to understand is, why in the age of renewable energy are some countries building new nuclear power plants? One hour north of Cologne is a Siemens energy plant. Siemens has been producing technology for electricity generation for decades. Jörn Schmücke is a senior vice president. He sees several challenges for a future where energy is produced mostly by renewables. The first one. How can we ensure that we have a constant energy supply? In principle, on good days, meaning on days with enough wind or sun, you can guarantee a large part of your energy supply from renewables. In Germany, for example, in 2022, we could cover on average around 50% of our electricity from renewables. On the other hand, there are days and longer phases where renewables contribute less than 10%. Siemens Energy has a system to simulate the energy transition. What happens on the grid if all the coal, nuclear and gas-fired plants are switched off, leaving only renewables to generate power? One challenge is that there are entire days or weeks with hardly any wind or sun. The second challenge is that in the short term, even within seconds, renewables can cause huge fluctuations in the power grid. There are certainly some surprises. You could have an entire wind park that suddenly stops supplying power, and you have a shortfall of 500 megawatts. That puts the grid under enormous pressure. And grid stability is crucial. Besides nuclear power, there are a couple of ways to stabilize the grid and offset these fluctuations in a carbon-neutral way. One is hydrogen power plants. Another is energy storage. With hydrogen, we're still just at the beginning. We've made enormous progress, but when I see it from the infrastructure side, we need to scale up massively for the production of green hydrogen over the next years. If I may talk about storage capacity, the challenge is, how do we create competitive storage capable of storing large quantities of energy over long periods? I think it will take a few more years until we're able to offer a competitive solution. Both ideas are very promising. But there's no guarantee they'll pan out as hoped. Which is why many countries are still relying on nuclear energy. Or are starting anew with it. The fact is, there are over 400 nuclear power plants in operation, and around 50 under construction. So nuclear energy is still very relevant for many countries. The advantage is that it's very efficient. It has high capacity with a very high supply security. The challenge, of course, is the high costs and the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste. Around the globe, more and more countries are striving for a higher percentage of nuclear power generation. Around 20 percent. One aim is grid stability. So what should the energy mix of the future look like? I don't think there's one clear answer. Every country has different requirements. Every country has to manage its own energy triangle and find the best balance between security of energy supply, economic efficiency, and of course environmental sustainability. I don't think there is one single solution. In the future, sun and wind energy will generate most of our electricity. How can we balance out the fluctuations? Different countries will rely on different solutions. We're back in the United States, where revolutionizing entire sectors of the economy is all in a day's work. We meet with Jacob DeWitt. To be frank, the typical model for nuclear, it won't work and it hasn't worked. So we have to change. When we were starting the company, I think we had enough confidence having seen how startups could be successful, pioneering and being able to deliver. Nuclear was just, it was too, I mean, it was just too good of an opportunity. DeWitt's goal is clear. With his startup Oklo, he aims to conquer the energy market with a new kind of reactor known as the fourth generation. So we're working on basically three projects right now for our first three reactors. One of those is in Idaho and the other two are in Ohio. The first could be connected to the grid as early as 2026. The company's vision of nuclear energy is also a rebranding. And for us, that was an important thing about how we also approached the design of the actual building and the plant. Not just to have it look like sort of what people are used to seeing, but something different. Something that's a little more appealing and something that's built more naturally or almost organically around what the power source is. Generation four reactors, like the ones Oklo will build, are a departure from traditional reactors. The developers say the fission process brings a decisive advantage. Part of the reason we chose this technology is because you can actually take used fuel or waste from today's reactors and recycle it. In America alone, the energy content in the waste inventories, the used fuel inventories in the U.S., with our system, there's enough energy there to power the entire country for over 150 years. Pretty neat. Their reactors would supply power to data centers in the future. So it's no surprise that Sam Altman, among others, has invested in the startup. Altman, the co-creator of ChatGBT, is even helping to take Oklo public. The aim is to raise $500 million to bring the mini power plants to market as quickly as possible. Oklo has a number of advantages that I believe make them best positioned to succeed in fission. I believe that what Oklo is doing is one of our best shots to get out of the energy crisis and get into this world of energy abundance. As promising as it all sounds, startups working on generation four reactors are facing a significant obstacle right now. They need a special kind of enriched uranium for their nuclear power plants. That is a massive bottleneck right now. Frankly, the West, sort of the European and American supplies just don't exist right now. The world has, as of recently, been significantly reliant upon Russia's enrichment capacities. The truth is, this new generation of reactors is not the only type dependent on Russia. Many other nuclear power plants are too. Back to Europe. We want to see why there's such a bottleneck in uranium enrichment in the nuclear industry. Uranium ore is mined in different countries and has to be processed in several stages to be used for atomic energy. One of these processes takes place here at Urenco. We are in an enrichment plant and that means we enrich natural uranium in order to make it a fuel for nuclear reactors around the world. Ad Lauter is the managing director of Urenco Netherlands. At the enrichment facility, solid uranium is delivered in these large cylinders. It's then heated until it turns into a gas and is fed into centrifuges, where the uranium-235 needed for nuclear power can be extracted. This enriched material has been in very high demand recently. To put things in perspective, in the year 2022 we have seen our order book increase by 24 percent, which is enormous. But where is all the demand coming from? We have seen a major disruption last year, in 2022, due to the Russian invasion in Ukraine. Many customers don't want to do business anymore with the Russians. But that's not so easy. Urenco is the second biggest player for enriched uranium on the international market. Russia is number one. Before the war in Ukraine, Moscow delivered almost half of the worldwide supply. Many nuclear power plants in Europe and the US sourced their enriched uranium from Russia. Russian has isolated themselves, I would even say have disqualified themselves to be part of that market, yes. We have taken short-term measures in order to ramp up our production, because the demand for production has increased. But on the longer term, we need to invest in additional capacity. Today, we cannot simply cut all relations overnight. It takes a little bit of time. The Euratom supply agency estimates that it could take seven to ten years for Europe to be independent of Russian enrichment capacity. The US is also still dependent on supplies from Russia. If Russia decided suddenly to stop providing nuclear fuel or uranium products to Europe overnight, that would create a problem. So despite the fact that the war is ongoing and that we have sanctions in all energy sectors, the nuclear fuel sector is not being sanctioned. And there's trucks crossing the border to Finland and fuel being loaded on planes flown to Bulgaria or Slovakia and simply loaded into reactors there. Are some Western countries so dependent on Russia for nuclear energy that they can't impose sanctions? Whether sanctions would be a problem for Europe and the US really depends on how they would be designed, what would be the target of those sanctions, how would we really imagine this happening. I expect that there will be sanctions against the nuclear sector probably this year, because I think that it's becoming politically unsustainable to keep the sector completely depoliticized and pretend that nothing is going on. How it's going to be designed, how far-reaching it's going to be, this is still an open question. The worldwide demand for energy is soaring. But if we want to keep climate change in check, our electricity production has to be carbon-neutral within about 10 years' time. Any talk of waiting for some additional breakthrough silver bullet technology that's going to come in the future, well, it is really distracting us from efforts that should be made right now. And if it is used as an excuse for not doing things now, but instead waiting for 2040, 2050, then it really becomes what we call climate obstruction. Maybe we've been waiting too long for that silver bullet. We kind of tried to pick a couple of favorite things that sounded good, maybe felt good, and as a result, we've really compromised our ability to meet our broad energy objectives and climate objectives. At the end of the day, nuclear is going to play a really important part of that. And by sort of somewhat almost pretending it wasn't going to be, which is what I would call it was for the last maybe 10, 20 plus years, we've put ourselves backward in terms of being ready to take advantage of the moment. Atomic energy could be part of the solution. But what lessons should the West learn from Russia's war in Ukraine? We need to be independent. It is about sovereignty. Actually, the nuclear sector could be a source of even higher vulnerabilities than the oil and gas sector. If something happens in the electricity sector, it might influence the economy in the entire country and the society within a matter of seconds. When it comes to nuclear power, Russia is at the forefront. If Western nations hope to rely on this technology in the future, they need to step up their efforts. So now we have to catch up, which we can do, but it's going to take a little bit more considered effort to do that. The question is, how much time is left?
