user:
Please provide a detailed summary of the following: 
 Hey Junker Peeps, as you know I'm American and I just got my Anglophone family reunion invite so I guess I have to show up to be polite and all. HWAH! Hi Dad. Hey everyone I'm your host Barbz, get your Geography Now merch like this Geography Now t-shirt at GeographyNow.com, not selling out if it's your brand. Well here I am in the big crumpet, the big uck, the land of kings queens and in-betweens. At one point a quarter of the world's population and land area was under their rule. Of course such a story came with lots of complicated chapters and when it comes to Usually it's best to have a person from the country come along and help out and for this episode I could not think of anyone better to speak on behalf of the UK than my go-to Brit. Many of you already know him. Come on in ladies and gentlemen say hello to Mr. J. Forman. Hi, hello, hello. Thank you so much. I've always wanted to be on Geography Now. We, tell them how we met. I think I started watching Geography Now back in the Belgium days. You accidentally stole a map from an episode of Map Men and now we're the best of YouTube. Yeah, yeah I stole your map. I've probably stolen more from elsewhere. By the way, Jay, a lot has probably happened over the years. What have you been up to? Uh, this. Oh, yeah. Oh, you made something. Yeah, I made one of these. Oh, okay. He's really good. Yeah, so let's talk about your country now. That is how we talk. So the UK today is very different from what it used to be and no, we're not referencing how the island used to be connected to the rest of continental Europe via Doggerland. And no, we're not referencing the Mesolithic, Arendsbergian hunter-gatherers. Or the Neolithic agriculturalists and enormous stone transporting and solstice measuring peoples. No, we're referencing a time later on when the entire island was just a mess of clans, chieftains, opposing monarchs and outside monarchs trying to come in and out-monarch the said monarchs. It wasn't until much later that the country actually completed unifying everything on the island of Great Britain plus Northern Ireland, don't forget Northern Ireland, and all the overseas territories, don't forget the overseas territories, and crown dependencies. You could probably forget the crown dependencies. Yeah, because there's like a whole other thing going on. Oh, yeah, and you guys have a town called T***y-ho. There's a place near here called Trottersbottom. I went to B***field. Oh, and of course you can't forget... Very good, very good, very good, excellent. Cheers. Actually, speaking of places in Britain, did you know that we've got some of the weirdest and hardest to pronounce places in the world? Okay. Lecester, Fromey, Ruislip, Chiswick, Landfall. Oh, yeah, that's Welsh, isn't it? It is Welsh. Oh, those Welshes you can get. Those Welshes, you can't trust them. Well, in any case, let's look at them up, shall we? First of all, the main chunk of what makes up the UK is Great Britain, located off the northwestern coast of the continental mainland of Europe, north of France, separated by the English Channel, and east of Ireland, separated by the Irish Sea to the east, as well as the North Sea and to the north, the North Atlantic. The island of Great Britain is made up of three constituent countries, England, which holds about 84% of the country's population, Scotland, which holds about 8%, and Wales, at about 1.5%. From there, they also administer Northern Ireland, which doesn't exactly have an official political title. Some say it's a constituent country, some say it's a region or province, but to this day, it lies across the Irish Sea, on the northern section of the island of Ireland, making it their largest land border with any country. Outside of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, though, the UK has three Crown dependencies and 14 overseas territories, 12 of which are small islands in the Caribbean, Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans, and two of them, Gibraltar and the sovereign bases of Aquitaine and Dachalia, are small areas attached to the larger shared land masses of Spain and Cyprus. Keep in mind the Crown dependencies of the Isle of Man, Guernsey, and Jersey are technically not considered part of the UK, but are still subject to the UK's defence and international representation. And finally, the British Antarctic Territory and its main base at Rothera is a section of Antarctica that does not have any actual sovereign status, as all countries are subject to the Antarctic Treaty, which states no one can colonise the continent. The entire domain that falls under the UK's sovereignty spans across nine time zones. Anyway, back to the main island. This is where things take a twist. First off, keep in mind each of the constituent countries of Scotland and Wales, as well as whatever you want to label Northern Ireland, has their own parliament system with a head called a First Minister, whereas England does not have its own separate parliament, as they just use the same country capitals Westminster Palace building as the meeting place for all English elected constituent officials, since it's pretty much always been the spot used for them anyway, and they see no need to complicate things further. On paper, England has 48 counties, Scotland has 32 council areas, Wales has 22 principal areas, and Northern Ireland has six counties, however, keep in mind that many of these are disputed, people don't pay attention to them, and many might just refer to their traditional areas, which is another topic. In any case, the capital and largest city, and largest city in Western Europe, is London. After that, it's Manchester at number two and Birmingham at number three. Also, keep in mind the city of London, or the City of London Corporation, has its own separate government, which is independent from the rest of the country. This means that the Lord Mayor of London is technically the highest ranking official in the UK after the monarch, even though the City of London in itself is just one small part of Greater London. London alone has four of the top ten busiest airports in the country, Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, and Luton, whereas outside of the London area, Manchester International comes in at number three, and Edinburgh International at number six. Just on the east side of England lies the port of Felixstowe, the largest and busiest shipping port of the country. The country has a very extensive road and rail network, and otherwise, London's Waterloo and Victoria are the largest train stations, and the completion of the Channel in 1994 officially connected the UK to the rest of mainland Europe via France. Except literally no one calls it the Channel ever. I call it the Channel. No you don't. It's the Channel Tunnel. Or the Eurostar. Or Le Shuttle. Or anything but Channel. No one says Chun- Calling it Channel. So as you can see, when it comes to the administrative divisions, the UK is quite possibly the biggest nightmare in the world. And keep in mind, we didn't even mention all the other confusing administrative levels, like combined authority areas, metropolitan counties, lieutenancy areas, or left-tenancy areas, depending how you want to pronounce it, parishes, wards... it's a lot. To help a little bit more on understanding on how all these things actively work, we could mention the 650 constituency system in which 650 small concessions of the country get represented in the parliament with a representative. It's so complicated. The way we do things in this country is, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. And if it is massively broke, still don't fix it. Anyway, off of that note, the UK has a bicameral legislature consisting of the House of Commons and the House of Lords. So the House of Commons is the one that you see on the telly, and the House of Lords is the big room next door where they wear robes, and it's weird. And the wigs too, right? Wigs sometimes, yeah. They're appointed. So there are four ways you can get into the House of Lords. One of them is by giving lots of money to the governing party, and then they sort of, as a favor, make you a lord. But that's not officially how it works, so don't... that's not what I said. The other way is if you're an expert in something like the law or the arts or beer. The other way is if you happen to be born with a dad who's already a hereditary peer. So it can be hereditary? It can be hereditary. And you're allowed to become a member of the House of Lords as long as you don't have any older brothers. Isn't it insane? Some British place names, just from looking at the name, you can tell which part of the country it's in. So for example, if it's got a Celtic name, which means it has words like tre, loch, bryn and abbot, that means you're likely to find it in Wales. Or if it's got a Viking suffix such as thwaite, thwap, kirk or bee, that means you're likely to find it in the north. And then there are the Anglo-Saxon place names such as ing, ham, berri, ford, port and so on and so on. So you can actually tell which group of people influence which area based off of the suffix of the name of the place? Sort of. Although that was probably more two hundreds of years ago, and now these days all the names get mixed up and they come up with new place names all the time. You gotta have that trotter's bottom. So all of that brings us to the obvious topic. The UK is a constitutional monarchy. Technically, the king is in charge and it's his country and it's his laws, but how this practically works is he's just a ceremonial figurehead and it's actually the government and the prime minister that make all the actual decisions. But he could also step in if he wanted to. In theory, he could step in and say, I don't like this law, but he knows full well that if he tried that, there'd be an instant revolution and we'd set Buckingham Palace on fire. You got another Oliver Carmel situation. Jay did a lot of videos on this type of stuff. We'll just put an annotation. Just check out his videos. Long story short, it wasn't always this way. In fact, the UK's history is more like the combined histories of the three constituent countries of Scotland, England and Wales, plus a little bit of Northern Ireland, but that's a whole other thing. Yeah, that's the thing. Ulster, yeah. Even though the UK is a country, the bits that make it up are also called countries. Yeah, there's no simple way to condense this whole history. Let's try anyway. Ancient beaker culture. Counts arrived and split into the Britons, Gaels and Picts. Romans failed to conquer the Picts. They build Hadrian's Wall. Romans leave, in come the Germanic tribe. Scotland splits into four kingdoms. Egbert becomes the first Saxon king. And then the Anglo-Saxon split into seven kingdoms. Anglo-Saxon, by the way, is where the name England comes from. Ah! Cornwall falls to Wessex but keeps its language and culture. Meanwhile, Wales was made up of many kingdoms, but the largest are Gwynedd, Powys and Diffyd. Vikings come in, raid much of the Hebrides, Ireland and Isle of Man. Scots and Picts join to create the Kingdom of Alba. Danish Vikings come in and create the Danelaw. This is also how lots of Danish words crept their way back into modern English, such as leg, window and yes, even ransack, which was exactly what the Danes were doing. Anglo-Saxon, Ethelsund fights against them and becomes the first king of England. Meanwhile, in the 11th century, Griffith-ap-Lwellyn becomes the only king that ruled over all of Wales, but then it is quickly killed by one of his own people. William of Normandy takes over England and thus begins the Norman dynasty. Angevin Empire via the House of Plantegeanates begins. Crusades! Oops, Richard Lionheart plays a huge role in this. King John is terrible and then his barons force him to sign the Magna Carta. 1284. Egbert the first conquers Wales and integrates it into England, but they maintain their language and culture. Alexander III of Scotland dies and 14 rivals claim succession to the throne. 14th century. Charles IV of France dies with no heir, so Egbert III was eligible through his mum, but the French were like, hell no, and elected Prince Philip of Valois and hence began the 100 years war. Yes, this is when the Joan of Arc thing happened. Egbert III dies, many claimants to the throne rise up and thus begins the War of the Roses. 16th century. Tudor dynasty begins and thus all that crazy Henry VIII stuff goes down. You know the history. Divorced, beheaded, died. Divorced, beheaded, survived. It's cute because it rhymes. Meanwhile, in 1585, the British take their first stab at colonizing what is now Virginia in the USA, which eventually evolved into the 13 colonies. Meanwhile, the East India Company begins shortly after. Elizabeth I's rule leads to the Mary Queen of Scots thing and the Spanish Armada. 17th century. Elizabeth I dies, closest relative is James VI of Scotland, and he becomes ruler, hence joining Scotland and England for the first time, becoming the.
