system:
Always only provide a detailed summary of the input. Don't answer questions or complete the text. The following is the context to keep in mind: 
The conversation provides an overview of the United Kingdom's history and administrative divisions. It discusses the complex past of the UK, its unification, and its current composition of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, overseas territories, and crown dependencies. The conversation also covers the UK's geographical location, constituent countries, and the political status of Northern Ireland. It delves into the administrative divisions of the UK, including disputed divisions such as counties, council areas, principal areas, and counties. London is mentioned as the capital and largest city, with its separate government. The UK's political system as a constitutional monarchy is briefly explained, along with key events in the country's history. Overall, the conversation provides an informative and lighthearted overview of the UK's history and administrative divisions.
user:
Please provide a detailed summary of the following: 
permanent member of the UN Security Council and founding member of numerous IGOs such as the G7, NATO, World Trade Organization and Council of Europe, the UK has lots of international ties. Although the Brexit situation did cut them off from EU authority, many of the diplomatic laws and trade deals with the EU are almost exactly the same as they were pre-Brexit and today the interaction is still there and open. It's just a little different when it comes to certain legislative issues like immigration and economic policy. This is a topic for another time. In any case, the UK has spent the last hundred years coming to terms with the fact that they were pretty much seen as the antagonist in so many independent stories across the world. Even though the empire has gone, its influence is still strongly felt around the world with lots of other countries speaking English, playing cricket, having similar-ish systems of government and so on. Many of these countries are members of the Commonwealth of Nations and the monarch is still, at least in a figurehead sense, the head of state of many of them. The UK still has very close relations to the Commonwealth countries with many of these people settling in the UK, most notably some of the largest diaspora communities from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ghana and the Caribbean. The UK, or England in particular, had a massive rivalry with France riddled with war for much of their history. For the last century though, especially after World War II, they've done a complete 180 and have found themselves on the same team in almost all global conflicts, and each side loves to poke fun but in a loving way at each other. Interestingly enough, the country they probably have the most in common with, Ireland, has had quite a few scuffles in conflict especially before the Good Friday Agreement was signed in 1998. Today, however, you can't deny that the citizens of both countries enjoy an extremely close relationship. Many British people have Irish heritage, they intermarry quite a bit, and many have dual citizenship. Australia and Spain have the largest communities of British national residents living abroad, Australia has always been a hotbed destination for immigration for Brits seeking the warmer climate, and specifically for Spain, Ibiza is almost like a little Britain as so many British people either go there on holiday or to move. In terms of their best friends, however, many in the UK would probably say the USA and maybe some might include Canada. The biggest differences between the two is that the USA gained full independence through whereas Canada just kind of stayed British until they slowly over time requested to be given more and more autonomy until technically 1982 when they adopted their own constitution but still remained under the Commonwealth. It wasn't even long after the Revolutionary War that the UK and USA quickly patched things up. Having a shared language and today a population with about 11% of its people ethnically descended from British roots has not only further helped them communicate and relate culturally but eventually they've joined in almost all major international conflicts since the mid-19th century. Today they swap each other's films, TV shows, music and so on. And in Europe anything USA related will typically have some kind of connection to the UK as they kind of act as like the link between North America and Europe. Overall the USA and UK may have started sour but today they have never been closer. Alright and with that in conclusion, Jay you are the Brit, I'm gonna give this to you. In conclusion, sorry about the empire but basically Britain is now finding its role as a modern progressive country that hopes to leave a good mark on the world. This flag actually makes me realize that when Brits go abroad even though we like to claim that we're not very patriotic, you know, we go abroad and it turns out yes we really are. We really care and we really do love our country and they hate when people fly their flag upside down! Isn't also backwards, everything's wrong. Well Jay I think there was nobody better than you to be in this episode and to co-host with me. Guys I guess that means stay tuned, the home country USA is coming up next. Good luck..
