If you've ever glanced at a ship moored next to a beach or a seemingly ordinary office block in East London, you might not have realized that you were looking at a crucial part of a vast, unseen infrastructure network. These unassuming locations are home to the cables, servers, and computers that make up the internet. They keep everything from your fridge to your phone connected to the modern world, and they could soon be powering your local hospital or swimming pool. 

These data centers, despite their inconspicuous nature, are some of the most innovative engineering projects in the world today. Every video you watch, every photo you look at, and every article you read lands onto your device thanks to a vast global infrastructure known as the internet backbone. This backbone is made up of over half a million miles of undersea cables, hundreds of exchange points, and around 8,000 data centers. This infrastructure enables data to be requested from anywhere on Earth and sent near the speed of light to your phone, tablet, or laptop.

One such data center is used to host Microsoft's cloud services. It's one of more than 300 that Microsoft runs across 140 countries. Constructing these data centers is a massive undertaking that can take up to five years from conception to launch. The process begins with a comprehensive assessment that looks at economic, political, and environmental risks, along with security, insurability, and market demands. Once all that's decided, design and construction follow, which involves permitting, material sourcing, and security measures. These projects generate 300 to 400 jobs annually, covering electricians, plumbers, carpenters, steelworkers, and more, with millions of work hours devoted to each building.

Microsoft also prioritizes reducing greenhouse gas emissions during construction, cutting concrete and steel embodied carbon by 30 to 60 percent by exploring low-carb materials. After completing the physical infrastructure, engineering teams integrate essential hardware and software, enabling the Microsoft cloud to run efficiently. 

Inside these data centers, rows and rows of servers store petabytes of data. These servers consume a significant amount of power, and keeping them powered, cooled, connected to the outside world, and safe is no small task for the teams responsible for designing and constructing them. 

Safety is a critical issue because if the internet backbone goes down, then the internet goes down. This was the case in 2008 when Egypt suffered a near-total loss of internet after a submarine cable was cut in the Mediterranean Sea. To prevent such incidents, security measures are put in place, including security guards, security stations, and identification checks. 

Keeping a constant power supply is crucial for data centers. For every megawatt a data center is powered by, it has just over one megawatt in battery storage and diesel generator backup. In an emergency, centers can run for an average of 48 hours off this backup supply before they need refueling. 

Aside from the energy used to keep the servers running, a lot of power is needed to keep them cool. In the past, air was used to cool servers, but now, liquid cooling is used, which is much easier to pipe away the hot fluid. This heat can be transmitted to district heating or to a neighborhood pool. 

By 2025, data centers will use 20 percent of the world's electricity. However, the need to reduce carbon emissions and cope with ever greater amounts of data is driving rapid innovation. For example, Microsoft's Project Natick, located off the northern Isles in Scotland, took the idea of water cooling to a whole new level by using the cool ocean water. 

Future data centers might not even look like data centers at all. They could be integrated into the local ecosystem, boosting biodiversity and creating greater storm resilience for the area. So next time you're on a sunny beach holiday or walking past a beaver dam, you could be just the other side of some of the most pioneering engineering this planet has ever seen.
