It seemed to rock a bit and that's the last I had seen of the video. Much of the data that I would recommend be analyzed would consist of radar data that would provide precise kinematics on the object as well as the fleet of objects that were operating nearby. Okay, and follow-up, in regards to the reporting procedures that Mr. Garcia had addressed on as well as Representative Burchett, with the FAA, to your understanding, pilots that are seeing this, commercial airline pilots, are they receiving cease and desist letters from corporations for coming forward with information in regards to safety for potential airline passengers? I have been made privy to a conversation with commercial aviators who have received cease and desist orders. So the American public should know that corporations are putting their own reputations on the, not the line, but ahead of the safety of the American people, and I think, would you agree with that statement? It appears so. Okay. I guess this would be my last, I'm out of time, I yield. I'll be back. Good. Mr. Moskowitz. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, let's talk about the laws of physics for a second. Mr. Graves, and Commander Faber, I heard you talk about speed. When those objects broke the sound barrier, did they make a sonic boom? I was in a jet, you can't hear anything, it's kind of loud in there. Yeah, you're not able to actually personally tell within the vehicle. I will say the objects that we were seeing, they were spherical, and they were observed up to Mach 2, which is a very non-aerodynamic shape. What about G-forces? Let's talk about G-forces of those vehicles. Could a human survive those G-forces with known technology today? No. No, not for the acceleration rates that we observed. Okay. What about what they look like? How close did you get? Did you see a seam, or a rivet, or a section? And what I mean is, obviously, the jets you're flying have all those things. Did these objects have those? I didn't have the detail to be able to tell that. So we got within a half mile of the tic-tac, which people say that's pretty far, but in airplanes that's actually relatively close. No, it was perfectly white, smooth, no windows, although when we did take the original FLIR video that is out there, when you put it on a big screen, it actually had two little objects that came out of the bottom of it. But other than that, no windows, no seams, no nothing. Mr. Grush, as a result of your previous government work, have you met with people with direct knowledge, or have direct knowledge yourself, of non-human origin craft? Yes, I personally interviewed those individuals. Mr. Grush, as a result of your previous government work, have you met with people with direct knowledge, or have direct knowledge yourself, about ATs, advanced technologies that the U.S. government has? Based on conventional advanced tech, I was briefed to the preponderance of the defense departments, both space and aerospace compartmental programs, yeah. Do you have knowledge, or do you have reason to believe that there are programs in the advanced tech space that are unsanctioned? Yes, I do. Okay. And when you say that they're above congressional oversight, what do you mean? Complicated question, so there's some, I would call it abuse here, so congressional oversight of conventional special access programs, and I'll use Title 10, so DOD as an example, right, so 10 U.S. Code Section 119 discusses congressional oversight of SAPs, discusses the DEPSEC DEF's ability to waive congressional reporting, however, the Gang of Eight is at least supposed to be notified if a waived or waived bigoted unacknowledged SAP is created, and that's public law. Well, so then how does, I mean, I don't want to cut you off, but how does a program like that get funded? I will give you generalities, I can get very specific in a closed session, but a misappropriation of funds and self-fund. Does that mean that there is money in the budget that is said to go to a program, but it doesn't, and it goes to something else? Yes, I have specific knowledge of that, yep. Do you think U.S. corporations are overcharging for certain tech they're selling to the U.S. government, and that additional money is going to programs? Correct, through something called IRAD. Okay. Satellite imagery. Let's talk about satellite imagery. We have satellites all over the place, some that we're aware of, and many that we're not aware of, right? We're taking pictures of everything at every point and second. Mr. Grush, are you aware, do you have direct knowledge, have you talked to people with direct knowledge that there are satellite imagery of these events? That was one of my primary tasks at NGA, since we process, exploit, and disseminate that kind of information. I've seen multiple cases, some of which, to my understanding, and of course I left NGA in April, so that's my information cutoff date. But I personally reviewed both what we call overhead collection and from other strategic and tactical platforms that were, I could not even explain prosaically, and I have a degree in physics, by the way, as well. And I am aware that you guys have not seen these reports, unfortunately, and I don't know why. Do you have direct knowledge, or have you spoken to people with direct knowledge that this imagery applies to crash sites, crash imagery? I can't discuss that in an open session. Do you have any information that the U.S. government is involved in a disinformation campaign to deny the existence of certain UAPs? I can't go beyond what I've already stated publicly in my NewsNation interview, because it touches other sensitivities. I'll yield the balance of my time back. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Fox? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank our witnesses for being here today. Mr. Garouche, in your sworn testimony, you state that the United States government has retrieved supposedly extraterrestrial spacecraft and other UAP-related artifacts. You go so far as to state that the U.S. is in possession of, quote, non-human spacecraft, end quote, and that some of these artifacts have circulated with defense contractors. Several other former military and intelligence officials have come forward with similar allegations, albeit in non-public settings. However, Dr. Sean Kirkpatrick, the director of AARO, previously testified before Congress that there has been, and I quote, no credible evidence thus far of extraterrestrial activity or of, quote, off-world technology brought to the attention of the office. To your knowledge, is that statement correct? It's not accurate. I believe Dr. Kirkpatrick mentioned he had about 30 individuals that have come to AARO thus far. A few of those individuals have also come to AARO that I also interviewed, and I know what they provided Dr. Kirkpatrick and their team. I was able to evaluate that information. Okay. I need to go on. Sure. But my understanding, his statement is accurate, came from a direct quote, and this contradiction is a perfect example of why we need to inject transparency into our government. And for another example, look no further than the pitiful response to the Chinese spy balloon debacle earlier this year. You may remember the mass confusion that ensued when the balloon was first spotted over Montana, four days after it first entered U.S. airspace over Alaska. The Biden administration's initial inability to address the object grew into a continuous series of embarrassments. After news of the balloon reached the mainstream media, we were assured that the balloon posed no threat to our security. However, after the balloon was allowed to transit the entire continental United States, fighter jets were scrambled off the coast of South Carolina to shoot it down. This flip-flopping and obfuscation caused needless confusion, fear, and panic across the country. It's my hope, Mr. Chairman, that this sort of confusion will not be repeated. We should investigate the extent to which elements of our government possess or do not possess information that is of critical value to the American people. We owe it to the citizens of this nation to make sure that our government is transparent and accountable. We must make sure that our government provides answers, and Congress must do its duty to solicit those answers. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Yeah, Mr. Frost. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2022, NASA announced that it was commissioning an independent study team to examine UAPs. The NASA team is comprised of scientists across different fields, as well as former astronauts and pilots. In May, the independent study team held its first public meeting, which included the perspectives from NASA senior leaders, as well as perspectives from the Department of Defense and intelligence agencies. The NASA study team is also expected to release its first report pretty soon, and I think it's safe to say that we all eagerly await its results. Mr. Graves, how might NASA's research influence the commercial industry regarding safety and UAP? I think NASA has a big role to play as far as commercial aviation safety, and it's one of their original charges. organization. One of the recommendations that have been put forward is to utilize their existing aviation safety reporting system to serve as a short-term fill and trusted platform for pilots that want to report on UAP. It also has built-in analytics capability and is funded by Congress. Gotcha. And also, Mr. Graves, are there any other industries that may be influenced by the NASA research on UAPs? And if so, how so? Well, I think there is a large swath of commercial capabilities that could be brought to bear on this topic from space-based or ground-based sensor systems that are available open source or through commercial marketplaces. And I think NASA's work, as they work to identify and highlight specific parameters that can be found, we can take that information and promulgate this through the public sector so that we can have more open conversation about what we're seeing. You know, in 2020, the Department of Defense released several videos of UAPs, including Mr. Frayer's experience, U.S. Navy pilots that recorded footage. In 2021, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released a preliminary report on UAP events. NASA Administrator Bill Nelson stated that NASA would begin to investigate these events. In fact, I sit on Science, Space and Technology Committee, and when we were doing a hearing with the NASA Administrator Bill Nelson, I asked, you know, why NASA needed to be fully funded. And there were many great reasons, but one of them was actually had to do with UAPs. He actually mentioned, you know, is there life out there? I don't know. And so either way, these actions ultimately led NASA to assemble the independent study team that I mentioned earlier. Also in 2021, Harvard University stood up the Galileo Project to research and examine the origins of UAP. So it seems like both, you know, from NASA and in the higher education community, because of the work that y'all have done and people standing up, you know, I think we're seeing some of that stigma slowly going away. Mr. Frayer, do you believe that military pilots feeling empowered to share their UAP experiences has directly impacted the scientific community's research goals on this topic? I would say yes. I would say that, you know, starting in 2017, when it actually came out, it took that stigma away. I mean, I've talked to multiple senators who said prior to that, if you'd have mentioned UAP, you'd have been laughed off the hill. And now you were sitting here today for a public testimony on what's actually going on. You know, I'm hoping that this curve will be more of an exponential, and we'll get more and more transparent to the level that we can. Yeah, yeah. And yeah, I mean, it's important. I couldn't imagine, you know, I'm not a pilot, but I used to fly gliders in Civil Air Patrol. Yeah, I got it. Yeah. And so either way, I mean, I couldn't imagine, you know, being being in the glider and seeing something, and then not feeling like I had the agency to talk about it. Mr. Graves, can you discuss the importance of seeking scientists to sit on your advisory board? Absolutely. I think ultimately, this is going to be a scientific problem. And not only that, it's also an engineering problem. I've been working with the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics to help them stand up a UAP integration committee to help integrate their engineering prowess into this problem. And so yes, very much, I think this is an engineering and scientific problem as much as a national security problem. And how might Congress help to facilitate partnerships between the scientific community and the UAP focus groups within government? Well, I think one of the things they can do is to have these types of hearings to communicate to the public that this is a topic of interest. I think that there is a pseudo market, if you will, of interested capabilities and talent that want to approach this topic. And we're seeing that start to grow now. So I think continued conversation, reduction of stigma is going to allow that to flourish and allow answers to help generate themselves. 100%. Well, thank you all for being here. Thank you for your work. I think it's important that we keep our top scientific minds focused on this issue and look for ways to increase collaboration. Thank you so much. I yield back. Mr.