are not there. - I wonder if there will ever be a future when such a thing happens, where everybody, the majority of people, Arab and Jew, Israeli and Palestinian, accept the one state solution and say, we want equal rights. - Never say never in history. It's not coming any time soon from either side. When you look at the long term of history, one of the curious things you see, and that what makes us different, human groups from animal species, you know, gorillas and chimpanzees, they're separate species. They can never merge. Cats and dogs will never merge. But different national and religious groups in history, even when they hate each other, surprisingly, they sometimes end by merging. If you look at Germany, for instance, so for centuries you had Prussians and Bavarians and Saxons who fought each other ferociously and hated each other. And there are sometimes also different religions, Catholics, Protestants, you know, the worst war in European history, according to some measures, was not the Second World War or the First World War. It was the 30 years war, waged largely on German soil, between Germans, Protestants and Catholics. But eventually they united to form a single country. You saw the same thing, I don't know, in Britain. English and Scotts for centuries hated and fought each other ferociously, eventually coming together. Maybe it'll break up again, I don't know. But the power of the kind of forces of merger in history, you are very often influenced by the people you fight, by the people you even hate more than by almost anybody else. - So if we apply those ideas, the ideas of this part of the world, to another part of the world that's currently in war, Russia and Ukraine, from what you learned here, how do you think peace can be achieved in Ukraine? - Oh, this can be achieved any moment. It's motivation. In this case, it's just one person. You just, Putin just need to say, that's it. You know, the Ukrainians, they don't demand anything from Russia, just go home. That's the only thing they want. They don't want to conquer any bit of Russian territory. They don't want to change the regime in Moscow, nothing. They just tell the Russians, go home. That's it. And of course, again, motivation. How do you get somebody like Putin to admit that he made a colossal mistake, a human mistake, an ethical mistake, a political mistake in starting this war, this is very, very difficult. But in terms of what would the solution look like? Very simple. The Russians go home, end of story. - Do you believe in the power of conversation between leaders, to sit down as human beings and agree, first of all, what home means? Because we humans draw lines. - That's true. I believe in the power of conversation. The big question to ask is where, where do conversations, real conversations take place? And this is tricky. One of the interesting things to ask about any conflict, about any political system is where do the real conversations take place? And very often they don't take place in the places you think that they are. But think about American politics. When the country was founded in the late 18th century, people understood holding conversation between leaders is very important for the functioning of democracy, we'll create a place for that. That's called Congress. This is where leaders are supposed to meet and talk about the main issues of the day. Maybe there was a time, sometime in the past when this actually happened, when you had two factions holding different ideas about foreign policy or economic policy, and they met in Congress and somebody would come and give a speech and the people all on the other side would say, hey, that's interesting. I haven't thought about it. Yes, maybe we can agree on that. This is no longer happening in Congress. Nobody, I don't think there is any speech in Congress that causes anybody on the other side to change their opinion about anything. So this is no longer a place where real conversations take place. The big question about American democracy is is there a place where real conversations, which actually change people's minds, still take place? If not, then this democracy is dying also. Democracy without conversation cannot exist for long. And it's the same question you should ask also about dictatorial regimes. Like you think about Russia or China. So China has the Great Hall of the People, where the representatives, the supposed representative of the people meet every now and then, but no real conversation takes place there. A key question to ask about the Chinese system is, behind closed doors, let's say, in a public bureau meeting, do people have a real conversation? If Xi Jinping says one thing and some other big shot thinks differently, will they have the courage, the ability, the backbone to say, with all due respect, they think differently and there is a real conversation? Or not? I don't know the answer. But this is a key question. This is the difference, you know, between an authoritarian regime can still have different voices within it, but at a certain point you have a personality cult. Nobody dares say anything against the leader. And when it comes again to Ukraine and Russia, I don't think that if you get, if you somehow managed to get Putin and Zelensky to the same room, when everybody knows that they are there and they'll have a moment of empathy, of human connection and they'll have a... No, I don't think it can happen like that. I do hope that there are other spaces where somebody like Putin can still have a real human conversation. I don't know if this is the case. I hope so. - Well, there's several interesting dynamics and you spoke to some of them. So one is internally, with advisors, you have to have hope that there's people that would disagree, that would have a lively debate internally. Then there's also the thing you mentioned, which is direct communication between Putin and Zelensky in private, picking up a phone, rotary phone, old school. That's, I still believe in the power of that. But while that's exceptionally difficult in the current state of affairs. What's also possible to have is a mediator like the United States or some other leader... - Yeah. - Like the leader of Israel or the leader of another nation that's respected by both, or India, for example, that can have first of all individual conversations and then literally get into a room together. - It is possible. I would say more generally about conversations as it goes back a little to what I said earlier about the Marxist view of history. One of the problematic things I see today in many academic circles is that people focus too much on power. They think that the whole of history or the whole of politics is just a power structure. It's just struggle about power. Now, if you think that the whole of history and the whole of politics is only power, then there is no room for conversation. Because if what you have is a struggle between different powerful interests, there is no point talking. The only thing that changes it is fighting. My view is that, no, it's not all about power structures. It's not all about power dynamics. Underneath the power structure there are stories, stories in human minds, and this is great news, if it's true, this is good news because unlike power, that can only be changed through fighting, stories can, sometimes, it's not easy, but sometimes stories can be changed through talking and that's the hope. I think, you know, in everything from couple therapy to nation therapy, if you think it's power therapy, it's all about power, there is no place for a conversation. But if to some extent it's the stories in people mind... If you can enable one person to see the story in the mind of another person, and more importantly, if you can have some kind of critical distance from the story in your own mind, maybe you can change it a little, and then you don't need to fight. You can actually find a better story that you can both agree to. It sometimes happens in history, you know, again, French and Germans fought for generations and generations, now they live in peace, not because, I don't know, if they found a new planet they can share between France and Germany so now everybody has an enough territory. No, they actually have less territory than previously because they lost all their overseas empires. But they managed to find a story, the European story, that both Germans and French people are happy with. So they live in peace. - I very much believe in this vision that you have of the power of stories. And one of the tools is conversations. Another is books. There's some guy that wrote a book about this, power of stories. He happens to be sitting in front of me. And that happened to spread across a lot of people. And now they believe in the power of story and narrative. Even a children's book, too. So the kids... I mean, it's fascinating how that spreads. I mean, underneath your work there's an optimism. And I think underneath conversations is what I try to do is an optimism. That it's not just about power struggles, it's about stories, which is like a connection between humans and together, kinda evolving these stories that maximize, or minimize suffering in the world. - Yeah, this is why I also, I think I admire what you are doing, that you're going to talk with some of the most difficult characters around in the world today. And with this basic belief that by talking maybe we can move them an inch, which is a lot when it comes to people with so much power. Like I think one of the biggest success stories in modern history, I would say, is feminism. Because feminism believed in the power of stories, not so much in the power of violence, of armed conflict. By many measures, feminism has been maybe the most successful social movement of the 20th century and maybe of the modern age, you know, systems of oppression, which were in place throughout the world for thousands of years. And they seem to be just natural, eternal. You had all these religious movements, all these political revolutions, and one thing remained constant, and this is the patriarchal system and the oppression of women. And then feminism came along and, you know, you had leaders like Lenin, like Mao, saying that if you want to make a big social change, you must use violence. Power comes from the barrel of a gun. If you want to make an omelet, you need to break eggs, and all these things. And the feminists said, no, we won't use the power of the gun. We will make an omelet without breaking any eggs. And they made a much better omelet than Lenin or Mao or any of these violent revolutionaries. I don't think, you know, that... They certainly didn't start any wars or built any gulags. I don't think they even murdered a single politician. I don't think there was any political assassination anywhere, by feminists. There was a lot of violence against them, both verbal but also physical. And they didn't reply by waging violence. And they succeeded in changing this deep in structure of oppression in a way which benefited not just women, but also men. So this gives me hope that it's not easy, in many cases we fail, but it is possible sometimes in history to make a very, very big change, positive change, mainly by talking and demonstrating and changing the story in people's minds, and not by using violence. - It's fascinating that feminism and communism and all these things happen in the 20th century. So many interesting things happen in the 20th century. So many movements, so many ideas, nuclear weapons, all of it, computers. It's just like, it seems like a lot of stuff like really quickly percolated. And it's accelerating. - It's still accelerating. I mean, history is just accelerating, you know, for centuries and the 20th century, you know, we squeezed into it the thing that previously took thousands of years. And now, I mean, we are squeezing it into decades. - And you very well could be one of the last historians, human historians, to have ever lived. - Could be. I think, you know, our species, homo sapiens, I don't think we'll be around in a century or two. We could destroy ourselves in a nuclear war, through ecological collapse, by giving too much power to AI that goes out of our control. But if we survive, we'll probably have so much power that we will change ourselves using various technologies so that our descendants will no longer be homo sapiens like us. They will be more different from us than we are different from Neanderthals. So maybe they'll have historians, but it will no longer be human historians or sapiens historians like me. I think it's an extremely dangerous development. And the chances that this will go wrong, that people will use the new technologies trying to upgrade humans, but actually downgrading them. This is a very, very big danger. If you let corporations and armies and ruthless politicians change humans using tools like AI and bioengineering, it's very likely that they will try to enhance a few human qualities that they need, like intelligence and discipline, while neglecting what are potentially more important human qualities like compassion, like artistic sensitivity, like spirituality. If you give Putin, for instance, bioengineering and AI and brain computer interfaces, he's likely to want to create a race of super soldiers who are much more intelligent and much more stronger and also much more disciplined and never rebel and march on Moscow against him. But he has no interest in making them more compassionate or more spiritual. So the end result could be a new type of humans, a downgraded humans who are highly intelligent and disciplined, but have no compassion and no spiritual depth. And this is one, for me, this is, you know, the dystopia, the apocalypse, that when people talk about the new technologies and they have this scenario of, you know, the Terminator, robots running in the street, shooting people, this is not what worries me. I think we can avoid that. What really worries me is using the corporations, armies, politicians will use the new technologies to change us in a way which will destroy our humanity or the best parts of our humanity. - And one of those ways could be removing the compassion. Another way that really worries me for me is probably more likely is a "Brave New World" kind of thing that sort of removes the flaws of humans. Maybe it removes the diversity in humans. And makes us all kind of these dopamine chasing creatures that just kind of maximize enjoyment in the short term. Which kind of seems like a good thing, maybe, in the short term, but it creates a society that doesn't think, that doesn't create, that just is sitting there enjoying itself, at a more and more rapid pace, which seems like another kind of society that could be easily controlled by a center of power. But the set of dystopias that we could arrive at through this, to rely on corporations to modify humans is vast and we should be worried about that. So it seems like humans are pretty good, as we are. All the flaws, all of it together. - We are better than anything that we can intentionally design at present. - Yeah. - Like any intentionally designed humans, at the present moment, is going to be much, much worse than us. 'Cause basically we don't understand ourselves. I mean, as long as we don't understand our brain, our body, our mind, it's a very, very bad idea to start manipulating a system that you don't understand deeply and we don't understand ourselves. - So I have to ask you about an interesting dynamic of stories. You wrote an article two years ago titled, "When the World Seems Like One Big Conspiracy: How understanding the structure of global cabal theories can shed light on their allure and their inherent falsehood." What are global cabal theories and why do so many people believe them? 37% of Americans, for example. - Well, the global cabal theory, it has many variations, but basically there is a small group of people, a small cabal that secretly controls everything that is happening in the world. All the wars, all the revolutions, all the epidemics, everything that is happening is controlled by this very small group of people who are of course evil and have bad intentions. And this is a very well known story that it's not new, it's been there for thousands of years. It's very attractive, because first of all, it's simple. You don't have to understand everything that happens in the world, you just need to understand one thing. The war in Ukraine, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 5G technology, COVID-19, it's simple. There is this global cabal. They do all of it, all of it. And also it enables you to shift all the responsibility to all the bad things that are happening in the world to this small cabal. It's the Jews, it's the Freemasons, it's not us. And also it creates this fantasy, utopian fantasy. If we only get rid of the small cabal, we solved all the problems of the world. Salvation. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the war in Ukraine, the epidemics, poverty, everything is solved just by knocking out this small cabal. So, and it's simple, it's attractive, and this is why so many people believe it. It's, again, it's not new. Nazism was exactly this. Nazism began as a conspiracy theory. We don't call Nazism a conspiracy theory because, oh, it's a big thing, it's an ideology. But if you look at it, it's a conspiracy theory. The basic Nazi idea was, the Jews control the world, get rid of the Jews, you solved all the world's problems. Now, the interesting thing about these kind of theories, again, they tell you that even things that look to be the opposite of each other, actually they are part of the conspiracy. So in the case of Nazism, the Nazis told people, you know, you have capitalism and communism, you think that they are opposite, right? Ah, this is what the Jews want you to think. Actually, the Jews control both communism, Trotski, Marx were Jews, blah, blah, blah. And capitalism, the Rothschilds, the Wall Street, it's all controlled by the Jews. So the Jews are fooling everybody, but actually the communists and the capitalists are part of the same global cabal. And again, this is very attractive because, ah, now I understand everything and I also know what to do. I just give power to Hitler. He gets rid of the Jews. I solve all the problems of the world. Now, as a historian, the most important thing I can say about these theories, they are never right, because the global cabal theory says two things. First, everything is controlled by a very small number of people. Secondly, these people hide themselves. They do it in secret. Now, both things are nonsense. It's impossible for people to control, a small group of people, to control and predict everything because the world is too complicated. You know, you look at a real world conspiracy. Conspiracy is basically just a plan. Think about the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. You had the most powerful superpower in the world, with the biggest military, with the biggest intelligence services, with the most sophisticated, you know, the FBI and the CIA and all the agents. They invade a third rate country, a third rate power, Iraq. With this idea, we'll take over Iraq and we'll control it, we'll make a new order in the Middle East. And everything falls apart. Their plan completely backfires. Everything they hope to achieve, they achieve the opposite. America, United States is humiliated. They cause the rise of ISIS. They wanted to take out terrorism. They created more terrorism. Worst of all, the big winner of the war was Iran. You know, the United States goes to war with all its power and gives Iran a victory on a silver plate. The Iranians don't need to do anything. The Americans are doing everything for them. Now, this is real history. Real history is when you have not a small group of people, a lot of people with a lot of power, carefully planning something, and it goes completely out of, against their plan. And this we know from a personal experience, like every time we try to plan something, a birthday party, a surprise birthday party, a trip somewhere, things go wrong. This is reality. So the idea that a small group of, I don't know, the Jewish cabal, the Freemasons, whoever, they can really control and predict all the wars? This is nonsense. The second thing that is nonsense is to think they can do that and still remain secret. It sometimes happens in history that a small group of people accumulates a lot of power. If I now tell you that Xi Jinping and the heads of the CCP, the Chinese Communist Party, they have a lot of power. They control the military, the media, the economy, the universities of China. This is not a conspiracy theory. This is, obviously, everybody knows it. Everybody knows it. Because to gain so much power, you usually need publicity. Hitler could not, Hitler gained a lot of power in Nazi Germany because he had a lot of publicity. If Hitler remained unknown, working behind the scenes, he would not gain power. So the way to gain power is usually through publicity. So secret cabals don't gain power. And even if you gain a lot of power, nobody has the kind of power necessary to predict and control everything that happens in the world. All the time shit happens that you did not predict and you did not plan and you did not control. - The sad thing is there's usually an explanation for everything you just said that involves a secret global cabal. That the reason your vacation planning always goes wrong is because you're not competent. There is a competent small group, that ultra competent small group. I hear this with intelligence agencies. The CIA are running everything. Mossad is running everything. - You see, I mean, as historian, you get to know how many blunders these people do. They are so, and they're capable, but they're so incompetent in so many ways. Again, look at the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Before the war, people thought, oh, Putin was such a genius and the Russian army was one of the strongest armies in the world. This is what Putin thought, and it completely backfired. - Well, a cabal explanation there would be, there's a NATO driven United States military industrial complex that wants to create chaos and- - So they put a gun to Putin's head and told him, Vladimir, if you don't invade, we shoot you. How did they cause put into invade? - It's the thing about conspiracy theories is there's usually a way to explain everything. - You can explain, it's kind of a religion. You can always find explanation for everything. And, you know, in the end, it's intellectual integrity. If you insist on whenever people confront you with evidence, with finding some very, very complicated explanation for that too, you can explain everything. We know that. It's a question of intellectual integrity. And I will also say another thing, the conspiracy theories, they do get one thing right, certainly in today's world, I think they represent an authentic and justified fear of a lot of people that they are losing control of their lives. They don't understand what is happening. And this I think is not just a legitimate fear. This is an important fear. They are right. We are losing control of our lives. We are facing really big dangers, but not from a small cabal of fellow humans. The problem with many of these conspiracy theories that yes, we have a problem with new AI technology, but if you now direct the fire against certain people, so instead of all humans cooperating against our real common threats, whether it's the rise of AI, whether it's global warming, you are only causing us to fight each other. And I think that the key question that people who spread these ideas, I mean many of them, they honestly believe, it's not malicious, that they honestly believe in these theories, is do you want to spread, to spend your life spreading hate towards people or do you want to work on more constructive projects? I think one of the big differences between those who believe in conspiracy theories and people who warn about the dangers of AI, the dangers of climate change. We don't see certain humans as evil and hateful. The problem isn't humans, the problem is something outside humanity. Yes, humans are contributing to the problem, but ultimately the enemy is external to humanity. Whereas conspiracy theories usually claim that a certain part of humanity is the source of all evil, which leads them to eventually think in terms of exterminating this part of humanity, which leads sometimes to historical disasters like Nazism. - So it can lead to hate, but it can also lead to a like cynicism and apathy that basically says, it's not in my power to make the world better. So you don't actually take action. - I think it is within the power of every individual to make the world a little bit better. You know, you can't do everything. Don't try to do everything. Find one thing in your areas of activity, a place where you have some agency and try to do that and hope that other people do their bit. And if everybody do their bit, we'll manage. And if we don't, we don't, but at least we try. - You have been part of conspiracy theories, I find myself recently becoming part of conspiracy theories. Is there a device you can give of how to be a human being in this world that values truth and reason while watching yourself become part of conspiracy theories? At least from my perspective, it seems very difficult to prove to the world that you're not part of a conspiracy theory. I, as you said, have interviewed Benjamin Netanyahu recently. I don't know if you're aware, but doing such things will also, you know, pick up a new menu of items that you're, new set of conspiracy theories you're now a part of. And I find it very frustrating because it makes it very difficult to respond, because I sense that people have the right intentions. Like we said, they have nervousness, a fear of power. - Yes. - And the abuses of power. And... As do I. So I find myself in a difficult position that I have nothing to show to prove that I'm not part of such a conspiracy theory. - I think ultimately you can't, we can't. I mean, you know, it's like proving consciousness, you can't, that's just the situation, whatever you say can and will be used against you by some people. - Yeah. - So this fantasy, if I only say this, if I only show them that, if I only have this data, they will see I'm okay. - Yeah. - It doesn't work like that. I think to keep your sanity in this situation, first of all, it's important to understand that most of these people are not evil. They are not doing it on purpose. Many of them really believe that there is some very nefarious, powerful conspiracy which is causing a lot of harm in the world. And they're doing a good thing by exposing it and making people aware of it and trying to stop it. If you think that you are surrounded by evil, you are falling into the same rabbit hole, you are falling into the same paranoid state of mind, oh, the world is full of these evil people that... No, most of them are good people. And also I think we can empathize with some of the key ideas there, which I share, that yes, it's becoming more and more difficult to understand what is happening in the world. There are huge dangers in the world that we are, existential dangers to the human species, but they don't come from a small cabal of Jews or gay people or feminists or whatever. They come from much more diffused forces, which are not under the control of any single individual. We don't have to look for the evil people. We need to look for human allies in order to work together against, again, the dangers of AI, the dangers of bioengineering, the dangers of climate change. And when you wake up in the morning, the question is, do you want to spend your day spreading hatred or do you want to spend your day trying to make allies and work together? - Let me ask you kind of a big philosophical question about AI and the threat of it. Let's look like at the threat side. So folks like Eliezer Yudkowsky worry that AI might kill all of us. Do you worry about that range of possibilities where artificial intelligence systems in a variety of ways might destroy human civilization? - Yes. You know, I talk a lot about it, about the dangers of AI. I sometimes get into trouble because I depict these scenarios of how AI becoming very dangerous. And then people say that I'm encouraging these scenarios. But I'm, you know, I'm talking about it as a warning. I'm not so terrified of the simplistic idea, again, the Terminator scenario of robots running in the street shooting everybody, I'm more worried about AI accumulating more and more power and basically taking over society based, taking over our lives, taking power away from us until we don't understand what is happening and we lose control of our lives and of the future. The two most important things to realize about AI, now, so many things are being said now about AI, but I think there are two things that every person should know about AI. First is that AI is the first tool in history that can make decisions by itself. All previous tools in history couldn't make decisions. This is why they empowered us. You invent a knife, you invent an atom bomb... The atom bomb cannot decide to start a war, cannot decide which city to bomb. AI can make decisions by itself. Autonomous weapon systems can decide, by themselves, who to kill, who to bomb. The second thing is that AI is the first tool in history that can create new ideas by itself. The printing press could print our ideas, but could not create new ideas. AI can create new ideas entirely by itself. This is unprecedented. Therefore, it is the first technology in history that instead of giving power to humans, it takes power away from us. And the danger is that it will increasingly take more and more power from us until we are left helpless and clueless about what is happening in the world. And this is already beginning to happen in an accelerated pace. More and more decisions, about our lives, whether to give us a loan, whether to give us a mortgage, whether to give us a job, are taken by AI. And more and more of the ideas, of the images, of the stories that surround us and shape our minds, our world are produced, are created by AI, not by human beings. - If you can just linger on that, what is the danger of that? That more and more of the creative side is done by AI, the idea generation, is it that we become stale in our thinking? Is that that idea generation is so fundamental to like the evolution of humanity? - That we can't resist the ideas. To resist an idea, you need to have some vision of the creative process. - Yeah. - Now this is a very old fear. You go back to Plato's cave, so this idea this idea that people are sitting chained in a cave and seeing shadows on a screen, on a wall, and thinking this is reality. You go back to Descartes and he has this thought experiment of the demon. And Descartes asks himself, how do I know that any of this is real? Maybe there is a demon who is creating all of this and is basically enslaving me by surrounding me with these illusions. You go back to Buddha, it's the same question. What if we are living in a world of illusions, and because we have been living in it throughout our lives, all our ideas, all our desires, how we understand ourself, this is all the product of the same illusions. And this was a big philosophical question for thousands of years. Now it's becoming a practical question of engineering, because previously all the ideas, as far as we know, maybe we are living inside a computer simulation of intelligent rats from the planet Zerco. If that's the case, we don't know about it. But taking what we do know about human history until now, all the, again, stories, images, paintings, songs, operas, theater, everything we've encountered and shaped our minds was created by humans. Now increasingly we live in a world where more and more of these cultural artifacts will be coming from an alien intelligence. Very quickly we might reach a point when most of the story stories, images, songs, TV shows, whatever, are created by an alien intelligence. And if we now find ourselves inside this kind of world of illusions, created by an alien intelligence that we don't understand, but it understands us, this is a kind of, you know, spiritual enslavement that we won't be able to break out of because it understands us, it understands how to manipulate us, but we don't understand what is behind this screen of stories and images and songs. - So if there's a set of AI systems that are operating in the space of ideas that are far superior to ours and we're not almost able to, it's opaque to us, we're not able to see through, how does that change the pursuit of happiness, the human pursuit of happiness? Life. Where do we get joy if we're surrounded by AI systems that are doing most of the cool things humans do much better than us? - You know, some of the things, it's okay that the AIs will do them. Many human tasks and jobs, you know, they're drudgery, they are not fun, they are not developing us emotionally or spiritually. It's fine if the robots take over. I dunno. I think about the people in supermarkets or grocery stores that spend hours every day just, you know, passing items and charging you the money. I mean, if this can be automated, wonderful. We need to make sure that these people then have better jobs, better means of supporting themselves and developing their social abilities, their spiritual abilities. And that's the ideal world that AI can create. That it takes away from us the things that, it's better if we don't do them and allows us to focus on the most important things and the deepest aspects of our nature, of our potential. If we give AI control of the sphere of ideas, at this stage, I think it's very, very dangerous because it doesn't understand us. And AI at present is mostly digesting the products of human culture. Everything we've produced over thousands of years, it eats all of these cultural products, digests it, and starts producing its own new stuff. But we still haven't figured out ourselves, in our bodies, our brains, our minds, our psychology. So an AI-based on our flow and understanding of ourselves is a very dangerous thing. I think that we need, first of all, to keep developing ourselves. If for every dollar and every minute that we spend on developing AI, artificial intelligence, we spend another dollar and another minute in developing human consciousness, the human mind will be okay. The danger is that we spent all our effort on developing an AI at a time that we don't understand ourselves, and then letting the AI take over, that's a road to a human catastrophe. - Does this surprise you how well large language models work? - Yes. - I mean, has it modified your understanding of the nature of intelligence? - Yes. I mean, you know, I've been writing about AI for, I don't know, like eight years now. And engaged with all these predictions and speculations. And when it actually came, it was much faster and more powerful than I thought it would be. I didn't think that we would have in 2023 an AI that can hold the conversation that you can't know if it's a human being or an AI, that can write beautiful texts, I mean, I read the texts written by AI and the thing that strikes me most is the coherence. You know, people think, oh, it's nothing. They just takes ideas from here and there words from, and put it, no, it's so coherent. I mean, you read in not sentences, you read paragraphs, you read entire texts. And there is logic. - Yes. - There is a structure. - It's not only coherent, it's convincing. - Yes. - And the beautiful thing about it that has to do with your work, it doesn't have to be true and it often gets facts wrong, but it still is convincing, and it is both scary and beautiful. - Yes. - That our brains love language so much that we don't need the facts to be correct. - Yes. - We just need it to be a beautiful story. - Yeah. And that's been the secret of politics and religion for thousands of years. And now it's coming