heaven, they came from us humans, we may have made a mistake, so here is a mechanism for how future generations can amend the constitution, which was used later on to, for instance, amend the Constitution to ban slavery. - So now you're describing some interesting and powerful ideas throughout human history. Can you just speak to the mechanism of how humans believe, start to believe ideas? Is there something interesting to say there from your thinking about it? Like how idea is born and how it takes hold and how it spreads and how it competes with other ideas? - First of all, ideas are an independent force in history. Marxists tend to deny that. Marxists think that all history is just a play of material interests, and ideas, stories, they are just a smokescreen to hide the underlying interests. My thoughts are to some extent the opposite. We have some biological objective interests that all humans share. Like we need to eat, we need to drink, we need to breathe. But most conflicts in history are not about that. The interests which really drive most conflict in history don't come from biology. They come from religions and ideologies and stories. So it's not that stories are a smokescreen to hide the real interests. The stories create the interests in the first place. The stories define who are the competing groups. Nations, religions, cultures, they are not biological entities. They're not like species like gorillas and chimpanzees. No. Israelis and Palestinians or Germans and French or Chinese and Americans, they have no essential biological difference between them. The difference is cultural. It comes from stories. There are people that believe in different stories. The stories create the identity, the stories create the interests. Israelis and Palestinians are fighting over Jerusalem not because of any material interest. There are no oil fields under Jerusalem, and even oil, you need it to realize some cultural fantasy. It doesn't really come from biology. So the stories are independent forces. Now, why do people believe one story and not another? That's history. There is no materialistic law. People will always believe this... No, history is full of accidents. How did Christianity become the most successful religion in the world? We can't explain it. Why this story about Jesus of Nazareth and not, you know, the Roman Empire in the third century CE was a bit like, I don't know, California today, like so many sects and subsects and gurus and like everybody has their own thing. - Yeah. - And you have, you know, thousands of different stories competing. Why did Christianity come up on top? As a historian, I don't have a kind of clear answer. You can read the sources and you see how it happened. Oh, this happened and then this happened and then Constantine adopted it and then this and then this. But why? I don't think anybody has an answer to that. If you rewind the movie of history and press play and you rewind and press play 100 times, I think Christianity would take over the Roman empire in the world maybe twice out of 100 times. It was such an unlikely thing to happen. And it's the same with Islam. It's the same, I don't know, with the communist takeover of Russia. In 1914, if you told people that in three years Lenin and the Bolsheviks will gain power in Tsarist Empire, they would think you're utterly crazy. You know, Lenin had a few thousand supporters in 1914 in an Empire of close to 200 million people. It sounded ludicrous. Now, we know the chain of events, the First World War, the February Revolution and so forth that led to the communist takeover. But it was such an unlikely event. And it happened. - And the little steps along the way, the little options you have along the way 'cause, you know, Stalin versus Trotsky, you could have the Robert Frost poem. There's always... - Yes. - (laughs) Always comes to... - And history often takes, you know, there is a highway and there is a kind of side way. And history takes the sideway. - Yeah. - Many, many times. - And it's perhaps tempting to tell some of that history through charismatic leaders. And maybe it's an open question, how much power charismatic leaders have to affect the trajectory of history. - You've met quite a lot of charismatic leaders lately. I mean, what's your view on that? - I find it a compelling notion. I'm a sucker for a great speech and a vision. So I have a sense that there's an importance for a leader to catalyze the viral spread of a story, as, so like, I think we need leaders to be just great storytellers that kind of sharpen up the story to make sure it infiltrates everybody's brain effectively. But it could also be that the local interactions between humans is even more important. But it's just, we don't have a good way to sort of summarize that and describe that. We like to talk about, you know, Steve Jobs as central to the development of the computer, maybe Bill Gates. And you tell it to the stories of individuals like this, 'cause it's just easier to tell a sexy story that way. - Maybe it's an interplay because you have the kind of structural forces that, I don't know, you look at the geography of the planet and you look at shipping technology in late, in the late 15th century in Europe and the Mediterranean. And it's almost inevitable that pretty quickly somebody will discover America, somebody from the Old World will get to the New World. So this was not a kind of, if it wasn't Columbus then it would've been a five years later somebody else. But the key thing about history is that these small differences make a huge, huge difference. You know, if it wasn't Columbus, if it was five years later somebody from England, then maybe all of Latin America today would be speaking English and not Spanish. If it was somebody from the Ottoman Empire, it's completely different world history. If you have, and you know, the Ottoman Empire at that time was also shaping up to be a major maritime empire. If you have America reached, being reached by Muslim navigators before Christian navigators from Europe, you have a completely different world history. It's the same with the computer. Given the economic incentives and the science and technology of the time, then the rise of the personal computer was probably inevitable sometime in the late 20th century. But the where and when is crucial. The fact that it was California in the 1970s and not, say, I don't know Japan in the 1980s or China in the 1990s, this made a huge, huge difference. So you have this interplay between the structural forces, which are beyond the control of any single charismatic leader. But then the small changes, they can have a big effect. And I think, for instance, about the war in Ukraine, there was a moment, now it's a struggle between nations, but there was a moment when the decision was taken in the mind of a single individual of Vladimir Putin. And he could have decided otherwise. And the world would've looked completely different. - And another leader, Vladimir Zelensky, could have decided to leave Kiev in the early days. There's a lot of decisions that kind of ripple. - Yeah. - So you write in "Homo Deus" about Hitler, and in part that he was not a very impressive person. - Did I say that? - The quote is, let me read it. - Okay. (laughs) - He wasn't a senior officer, in four years of war he rose no higher than the rank of corporal. He had no formal education... Perhaps you mean his resume. - Yeah, yeah. His resume was not impressive, that's true. - He had no formal education, no professional skills, no political background. He wasn't a successful businessman or a union activist. He didn't have friends or relatives in high places nor any money to speak of. So how did he amass so much power? What ideology, what circumstances enabled the rise of the 3rd Reich? - Hmm. Again, I can't tell you the why. I can tell you the how. I don't think it was inevitable. I think that a few, if a few things were different, there would've been no 3rd Reich, there would've been no Nazism, no Holocaust. Again, this is the tragedy. If it would've been inevitable, then, you know, what can you do? This is the laws of history or the laws of physics. But the tragedy is, no, it was decisions by humans that led to that direction. And, you know, even from the viewpoint of the Germans, we know for a fact, it was an unnecessary path to take. 'Cause you know, in the 1920s and 30s, the Nazis said that this, unless Germany take this road, it will never be prosperous, it will never be successful. All the other countries will keep stepping on it. This was their claim. And we know for a fact this is false. Why? Because they took that road, they lost the Second World War. And after they lost, then they became one of the most prosperous countries in the world because their enemies that defeated them, evidently supported them and allowed them to become such a prosperous and successful nation. So, you know, if you can lose the war and still be so successful, obviously you could just have skipped the war. You didn't need it. I mean, you really had to have the war in order to have a prosperous Germany in the... Absolutely not. And it's the same with Japan. It's the same with Italy. So it was not inevitable. It was not the forces of history that necessitated, forced Germany to take this path. I think part of it is part of the appeal of, again, Hitler was a very, very skillful storyteller. He sold people a story. The fact that he was nobody made it even more effective because people, at that time, after the defeat of the First World War, after the repeated economic crisis of the 1920s in Germany, people felt betrayed by all the established elites, by all the established institutions. All these professors and politicians and industrialists and military, all the big people. They led us to a disastrous war. They led us to humiliation. So we don't want any of them. And then you have this nobody, a corporal, with no money, with no education, with no titles, with nothing. And he tells people, I'm one of you. And this made him, this was one reason why he was so popular. And then the story he told, when you look at stories and the competition between different stories and between stories, fiction and the truth... The truth has two big problems. The truth tends to be complicated and the truth tends to be painful. The real story of, let's talk about nations. The real story of every nation is complicated and it contains some painful episodes. We are not always good. We sometimes do bad things. Now, if you go to people and you tell them a complicated and painful story, many of them don't want to listen. The advantage of fiction is that it can be made as simple and as painless or attractive as you want it to be because it's fiction. And then what you see is that politicians, like Hitler, they create a very simple story. We are the heroes. We always do good things. Everybody's against us. Everybody's trying to trample us. And this is very attractive. One of the things people don't understand about Nazism and fascism, we teach in schools about fascism and Nazism as this ultimate evil, the ultimate monster in human history. And at some level this is wrong, because it make people, it actually exposes us. Why? 'Cause people hear, oh, fascism is this monster. And then when you hear the actual fascist story, what fascists tell you is always very beautiful and attractive. Fascists are people who come and tell you, you are wonderful. You belong to the most wonderful group of people in the world. You are beautiful, you are ethical. Everything you do is good. You have never done anything wrong. There are all these evil monsters out there that are out to get you. And they are causing all the problems in the world. And when people hear that, you know, it's like looking in the mirror and seeing something very beautiful. Hey, I'm beautiful. We've never done anything wrong. We are victims. Everybody is... And when you look and you heard in school that fascism, that fascists are monsters, and you look in the mirror, you see something very beautiful and you say, I can't be a fascist because fascists are monsters and this is so beautiful, so it can't be. But when you look in the fascist mirror, you never see a monster. You see the most beautiful thing in the world. And that's the danger. This is the problem, you know, with Hollywood's, you know, I look at Voldemort in Harry Potter, who would like to follow this creep? - Yeah. - And you look at Darth Vader, this is not somebody you would like to follow. Christianity got things much better when he described the devil as being very beautiful and attractive. That's the danger, that you see something is very beautiful. You don't understand the monster underneath. - And you're right precisely about this. And by the way, it's just a small aside, it always saddens me when people say, how obvious it is to them that communism is a flawed ideology. When you ask them, try to put your mind, try to put yourself in the beginning of the 20th century and see what you would do. A lot of people will say, it's obvious that it's a flawed ideology. So I mean, I suppose to some of the worst ideologies in human history, you could say the same. And in that mirror, when you look, it looks beautiful. - Communism is the same. Also, you look in the communist mirror, you are the most ethical, wonderful person ever. It's very difficult to see Stalin underneath it. - So "Homo Deus," you also write, during the 19th and 20th centuries, as humanism gained increasing social credibility and political power, it sprouted two very different offshoots, socialist humanism, which encompassed a plethora of socialists and communist movements, and evolutionary humanism, whose most famous advocates were the Nazis. So if you can just linger on that, what's the ideological connection between Nazism and communism as embodied by humanism? - And humanism basically is, you know, the focus is on humans, that they are the most important thing in the world. They move history. But then there is a big question, what are humans? What is humanity? Now, liberals, they place at the center of the story individual humans. And they don't see history as a kind of necessary collision between big forces. They place the individual at the center. If you want to know, you know, there is a bad, especially in the US today, liberal is taken as the opposite of conservative. But to test whether you are liberal, you need to answer just three questions. Very simple. Do you think people should have the right to choose their own government or the government should be imposed by some outside force? Do you think people should have the right to the liberty to choose their own profession or either born into some cast that predetermines what they do? And do you think people should have the liberty to choose their own spouse and their own way of personal life instead of being told by elders or parents who to marry and how to live? Now, if you answered yes to all three questions, people should have the liberty to choose their government, their profession, their personal lives, their spouse, then you're a liberal. And most conservatives are also liberal. Now, communists and fascists, they answer differently. For them history is not, yes, history is about humans. Humans are the big heroes of history, but not individual humans and their liberties. Fascists imagine history as a clash between races or nations. The nation is at the center. They say the supreme good is the good of the nation. You should have 100% loyalty only to the nation. You know, liberals say, yes, you should be loyal to the nation, but it's not the only thing. There are other things in the world, the human rights, there is truth, there is beauty. Many times, yes, you should prefer the interests of your nation over other things, but not always. If your nation tells you to murder millions of innocent people, you don't do that, even though the nation tells you to do it. To lie for the national interest... You know, in extreme situations, maybe, but in many cases, your loyalty should be to the truth, even if it makes your nation looks a bit, not in the best light, the same with beauty. You know, how does the fascists determine whether a movie is a good movie? Very simple. If it serves the interest of the nation, this is a good movie. If it's against the interest of the nation, this is a bad movie. End of story. Liberalism says, no, there is aesthetic values in the world, we should judge movies not just on that question whether they serve the national interest, but also on artistic value. Communists are a bit like the fascists, instead that they don't place the nation as the main hero. They place class as the main hero. For them history, again, it's not about individuals, it's not about nations. History is the clash between classes. And just as fascists imagine in the end only one nation will be on top, the communists think in the end only one class should be on top. And that's the proletariat. And same story, 100% of your loyalty should be to the class. And like if there is a clash tag between class and family, class wins. Like in the Soviet Union, the party told children, if you hear your parents say something bad about Stalin, you have to report them. And there are many cases when children reported their parents and their parents were sent to the Gulag. Like, and you know, your loyalty is to the party, which leads the proletariat to victory in the historical struggle. And the same way in communism, art is only about class struggle, and movie's good if it serves the interest of the proletariat. Artistic values? There is nothing like that. And the same with truth. Everything that we see now in fake news, you know, the communist propaganda machine was there before us. The level of lies, of disinformation campaigns that they orchestrated in the 1920s and '30s and '40s is really unimaginable. - So the reason these two ideologies, classes of ideologies failed is the sacrifice the truth, not just failed, but did a lot of damage, is sacrifice the truth and sacrifice the beauty. - And sacrifice of hundreds of millions of people. Disregard, again, for human suffering. Like, okay, for, in order to, for our nation to win, in order for our class to win, we need to kill those millions, kill those millions. That was an ethics, aesthetics, truth... They don't matter. The only thing that matter is the victory of the state or the victory of the class. And that's the, liberalism was the antithesis to that. It says, no, not only it's, it has a much more complicated view of the world and both communism and fascism. They have a very simple view of the world. There is one, your loyalty, 100% of it should be only to one thing. Now, liberalism has a much more complex view of the world. It says, yes, there are nations, they are important. Yes, there are classes, they are important. But they are not the only thing. There are also families, there are also individuals. There are also animals. And your loyalty should be divided between all of them. Sometimes you prefer this, sometimes you prefer that. That's complicated. And, but, you know, life is complicated. - But also, I think maybe you can correct me, but liberalism acknowledges the corrupting nature of power, when there's a guy at the top, sits there for a while, managing things, he is probably gonna start losing a good sense of reality and losing the capability to be a good manager. It feels like the communist and fascist regimes don't acknowledge that basic characteristic of human nature, that power corrupts. - Yes. They believe in infallibility. - Yeah. - They're, in this sense, they're very close to being religions. In Nazism, Hitler was considered infallible, and therefore you don't need any checks and balances on his power. Why do you need to balance an infallible genius? And it's the same with the Soviet Union with Stalin and more generally with the Communist party, the Party can never make a mistake, and therefore you don't need independent courts, independent media, opposition parties, things like that. Because the Party is never wrong. You concentrate the same way, 100% of loyalty should be to the Party, 100% of power should be in the hands of the Party. The whole idea of liberal democracy is embracing fallibility. Everybody is fallible. All people or leaders or political parties or institutions. This is why we need checks and balances, and we need many of them. If you have just one, then this particular check itself could make terrible mistakes. So you need, say, you need a press, you need the media to serve as a check to the government. You don't have just one newspaper or one TV station. We need many, so that they can balance each other. And the media's not enough. So if you have independent courts. You have free academic institutions. You have NGOs. You have a lot of checks and balances. - So that's the ideologies and the leaders. What about the individual people, the millions of people that play a part in all of this that are the hosts of the stories that are the catalyst and the sort of the components of how the story spreads. Would you say that all of us are capable of spreading any story, sort of the Solzhenitsyn idea of that all of us are capable of good and evil. The line between good and evil runs the heart of every man. - Yes. I wouldn't say that every person is capable of every type of evil, but we are all fallible. There is a large element... It partly depends on the efforts we make to develop our self-awareness during life. Part of it depends on moral luck. You know, if you are born as a Christian German in the 1910s or 1920s, and you grow up in Nazi Germany, that's bad moral luck. Your chances of committing terrible things, you have a very high chance of doing it. And you can withstand it, but it'll will take tremendous effort. If you are born in Germany after the war, you are morally lucky that you will not be put to such a test. You will not need to exert these enormous efforts not to commit atrocities. So there is an, this is just part of history. There is an element of luck. But again, part of it is also self-awareness. And you asked me earlier about the potential of power to corrupt. And I listened to the interview you just did with Prime Minister Netanyahu a couple of days ago. And one of the things that most struck me during the interview that you asked him, you asked him, are you afraid of this thing, that power corrupts? He didn't think for a single second. He didn't pose, he didn't admit a tiny little level of, you know, a doubt or... No. Power doesn't corrupt. It was, for me, it was a shocking and a revealing moment. And it kind of dovetails with how you began the interview, that I really liked your opening gambit, that, kind of... No, really, you kind of told him, you know, lots of people in the world are angry with you. Some people hate you. They dislike you. What do you want to tell them, to say to them? And you gave him this kind of platform. And I was very, what will he say? And he just denied it. He basically denied it. You know, he had to cut short the interview from three hours to one hour because he had hundreds of thousands of Israelis in the streets demonstrating against him. And he goes and saying, no, everybody likes me. What are you talking about? - But on that topic, you've said recently that the Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, may go down in history as the man who destroys Israel. Can you explain what you mean by that? - Yes. I mean, he is basically tearing apart the social contract that held this country together for 75 years. He's destroying the foundations of Israeli democracy. You know, I don't want to go too deep, and unless you want it, because I guess most of our listeners, they have bigger issues on their minds than the fate of some small country in the Middle East. But for those who want to understand what's happening in Israel, there is really just one question to ask. What limits the power of the government? In United States, for instance, there are lots of checks and balances that limit the power of the government. You have the Supreme Court, you have the Senate, you have the House of Representative, you have the President, you have the Constitution, you have 50 states, each state with its own Constitution and Supreme Court and Congress and Governor... If somebody wants to pass a dangerous legislation, say, in the House, it will have to go through so many obstacles... Like if you want to pass a law in United States, taking away voting rights from Jews or from Muslims or from African-Americans, even if it passes, even if it has a majority in the House of Representatives, it has a very, very, very small chance of becoming the law of the country. Because it'll have to pass again through the Senate, through the President, through the Supreme Court and all the federal structure. In Israel, we have just a single check on the power of the government. And that's the Supreme Court. There is really no difference between the government and the legislature, because whoever there is, there are no separate elections like in the US. If you win majority in the Knesset, in the Parliament, you appoint the government. That's very simple. And if you have 61 members of Knesset who vote, let's say, on a law to take away voting rights from Arab citizens of Israel, there is a single check that can prevent it from becoming the law of the land. And that's the Supreme Court. And now the Netanyahu government is trying to neutralize or take over the Supreme Court, and they've already prepared a long list of laws. They already talk about it. What will happen the moment that this last check on the power is gone, they are openly trying to gain unlimited power. And they openly talk about it, that once they have it, then they will take away the rights of Arabs, of LGBT people, of women, of secular Jews. And this is why you have hundreds of thousands of people in the streets. You have air force pilots saying, we stopped flying. This is unheard of in Israel. I mean, we are still living under existential threat from Iran, from other enemies. And in the middle of this, you have air force pilots who dedicated their lives to protecting the country. And they're saying, that's it. If this government doesn't stop what it is doing, we stop flying. - So, as you said, I just did the interview and as we were doing the interview, there's protests in the streets. Do you think the protests will have an effect? - I hope so very much. I'm going to many of these protests. I hope they will have an effect. If we fail, this is the end of Israeli democracy, probably. This will have repercussions far beyond the borders of Israel. Israel is a nuclear power. Israel has one of the most advanced cyber capabilities in the world, able to strike basically anywhere in the world. If this country becomes a fundamentalist and militarist dictatorship, it can set fire to the entire Middle East. It can, again, have destabilizing effects long, far beyond the borders of Israel. - So you think without the check on power is possible that the Netanyahu government holds on to power... - Nobody tries to gain unlimited power just for nothing. I mean, you have so many problems in Israel, and Netanyahu talks so much about Iran and the Palestinians and Hezbollah. We have an economic crisis. Why is it so urgent at this moment, in the face of such opposition, why is it so crucial for them to neutralize the Supreme Court? They're just doing it for the fun of it? No, they know what they are doing. they are adamant, again, we are not sure of it before. There was a, like a couple of months ago, they came out with this plan to take over the Supreme Court, to have all these laws. And there were hundreds of thousands of people in the streets, again, soldiers saying they will stop serving, a general strike in the economy. And they stopped. And they started a process of negotiations to try and enrich a settlement. And then they broke down, they stopped the negotiations and they restarted this process of legislation trying to gain unlimited power. So any doubt we had before, okay, maybe they changed their purposes. No, it's now very clear. They are 100% focused on gaining absolute power. They are not trying a different tactic. Previously they took, they had all these dozens of laws that they wanted to pass very quickly, within a month or two, they realized, no, this is, there is too much opposition. So now they're doing what is known as salami tactics, slice by slice. Now they're trying to, one law, if this succeeds, then they'll pass the next one and the next one and the next one. This is why we are now at a very crucial moment. And when you see, again, hundreds of thousands of people in the streets almost every day, when you're seeing resistance within the armed forces, within the security forces, you see high tech companies say, we will go on strike. You know, it's our private businesses, high tech companies. I think it's almost unprecedented for a private business to go on strike because what will economic success benefit us if we live under a messianic dictatorship? And again, the fuel for this whole thing is, to a large extent, coming from Messianic religious groups, which, just the thought, what happens if these people have unlimited control of Israel's nuclear arsenal and Israel's military capabilities and cyber capabilities. This is very, very scary. Not just for the citizens of Israel. It should be scary for people everywhere. - So it would be scary for it to go from being a problem of security and protecting the peace to becoming a religious war. - It is already becoming a religious war. I mean, the war, the conflict with the Palestinians was for many years a national conflict, in essence. Over the last few years, maybe a decade or two, it is morphing into religious conflict, which is again, a very worrying development. When nations are in conflict, you can reach some compromise. Okay, you have this bit of land, we have this bit of land. But when it becomes a religious conflict between fundamentalists, between messianic people, compromise becomes much more difficult because you don't compromise on eternity. You don't compromise on God. And this is where we are heading right now. - So I know you said it's a small nation somewhere in the Middle East, but it also happens to be the epicenter of one of the longest running, one of the most tense conflicts and crises in human history. So at the very least, it serves as a study of how conflict can be resolved. So what are the biggest obstacles to you to achieving peace in this part of the world? - Motivation. I think it's easy to achieve peace if you have the motivation on both sides. Unfortunately at the present juncture, there is not enough motivation on either side, either the Palestinian or Israeli side. Peace, you know, in mathematics you have problems without solutions, you can prove mathematically that this mathematical problem has no solution. In politics, there is no such thing. All problems have solutions if you have the motivation. And, but motivation is the big problem. And again, we can go into the reasons why, but the fact is that on neither side is there enough motivation. If there was motivation, the solution would've been easy. - Is there an important distinction to draw between the people on the street and the leaders in power in terms of motivation? So are most people motivated and hoping for peace and the leaders are motivated and incentivized to continue war? - I don't think so. - Or the people also? - I think it's a deep problem. It's also the people. It's not just the leaders. - Is it even a human problem of literally hate in people's heart? - Yeah, there is a lot of hate. One of the things that happened in Israel over the last 10 years or so, Israel became much stronger than it was before, largely thanks to technological developments. And it feels that it no longer needs to compromise. That again, this is, there are many reasons for it, but some of them are technological. Being one of the leading powers in cyber, in AI, in high tech, we have developed very sophisticated ways to more easily control the Palestinian population. In the early 2000s, it seemed that it is becoming impossible to control millions of people against their will. It took too much power, it spilled too much blood on both sides. So there was an impression, oh, this is becoming untenable. And there were several reasons why it changed, but one of them was new technology. Israel developed very sophisticated surveillance technology that has made it much easier for Israeli security forces to control 2.5 million Palestinians in the West Bank against their will, with a lot less effort, less boots on the ground, also less blunt. And Israel is also now exporting this technology to many other regimes around the world. Again, I heard Netanyahu speaking about all the wonderful things that Israel is exporting to the world. And it's true, we are exporting some nice things, water systems and new kinds of tomatoes. We are also exporting a lot of weapons and especially surveillance systems, sometimes to unsavory regimes, in order to control their populations. - Can you comment on, I think you've mentioned that the current state of affairs is the defacto three class state. Can you describe what you mean by that? - Yes. For many years, the kind of leading solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the two-state solution. - Can you describe what that means, by the way? - Yes. Two states within, between the Jordan River, and the Mediterranean, we'll have two states. Israel is a predominantly Jewish state, and Palestine is a predominantly Palestinian state. Again, there were lots of discussions where the border passes, what happens with security arrangement and whatever. But this was the big solution. Israel is basically abandoned the two-state solution. Maybe they don't say so officially, the people in power, but in terms of how they actually, what they do on the ground, they abandoned it. Now they are effectively promoting the three class solution, which means there is just one country and one government and one power between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River. But you have three classes of people living there. You have Jews, who enjoy full rights, all the rights. You have some Arabs who are Israeli citizens and have some rights. And then you have the other Arabs, the third class who have basically no civil rights and limited human rights. And that's, again, nobody would openly speak about it. But effectively, this is the reality on the ground already. - So there's many, and I'll speak with the Palestinians who characterize this as a defacto one state apartheid. So you agree with this? - I would take issue, I would take issue with the term apartheid. Generally speaking as a historian, I don't really like historical analogies because there are always differences. Key differences. The biggest difference between the situation here and the situation in South Africa in the time of the apartheid is that the black South Africans did not deny the existence of South Africa and did not call for the destruction of South Africa. They had a very simple goal. They had a very simple demand. We want to be equal citizens of this country. That's it. And the apartheid regime was, no, you can't be equal citizens. Now in Israel-Palestine, it's different. The Palestinians, many of them don't recognize the existence of Israel, are not willing to recognize it. And they don't demand to be citizens of Israel. They demand, some of them to destroy it and replace it with the Palestinians state, some of them demand a separate state. But you know, if the Palestinians would adopt the same policy as the black South Africans, if you have the Palestinians coming and saying, okay, forget about it. We don't want to destroy Israel. We don't know a Palestinian country. We have a very simple request, very simple demand. Give us our full rights. We also want to vote to the Knesset. We also want to get the full protection of the law. That's it. That's our only demand. Israel will be in deep-deep trouble at that moment, but we