with AI. - So you, as a person who has written some of the most impactful words ever written, in your books, how does that make you feel that you might be one of the last effective human writers? - That's a good question. - First of all, do you think that's possible? - I think it is possible. I've seen a lot of examples of AI being told, write like Yuval Noah Harari and what it produces. - Has it ever done better than you think you could have written yourself? - I mean, on the level of content of ideas? No. There are things I say, I would never say that. But when it comes to the, you know, I mean, there is, again, the coherence and the quality of writing is such that I say, it's unbelievable how good it is. And who knows, in 10 years, in 20 years, maybe it can do better, even on, according to certain measures of, on the level of content. - So that people would be able to do like a style transfer, do in the style of Yuval Noah Harari write, anything. Write why I should have ice cream tonight. And make it convincing. - I don't know if I have anything convincing to say about these things. - I think you would be surprised. I think you'd be surprised. That could be an evolutionary biology explanation for why... - [Yuval Noah Harari] Yeah. Ice cream is good for you. - Yeah. So, I mean that changes the nature of writing. - Ultimately I think it goes back... Much of my writing is suspicious of itself. I write stories about the danger of stories. I write about intelligence, but highlighting the dangers of intelligence. Ultimately, I don't think that... In terms of power, human power comes from intelligence and from stories. But I think that the deepest and best qualities of humans are not intelligence and not storytelling and not power. Again, with all our power, with all our cooperation, with all our intelligence, we are on the verge of destroying ourselves and destroying much of the ecosystem. Our best qualities are not there. Our best qualities are non-verbal. Again, they come from things like compassion, from introspection, and introspection from my experience is not verbal. If you try to understand yourself with words, you will never succeed. There is a place where you need the words, but the deepest insights, they don't come from words. And you can't write about it. But that's, again, it goes back to Wittgenstein, to Buddha, to so many of these sages before, that these are the things we are silent about. - Yeah. But eventually you have to project it, as a writer, you have to do the silent introspection, but projected onto a page. - Yes. But you still have to warn people. You will never find the deepest truth in a book. You will never find it in words. You can only find it in, I think, in direct experience, which is nonverbal, which is preverbal. - In the silence of your own mind. - Yes. - Somewhere in there. - Yes. (Lex laughing) - Well, lemme ask you a silly question then, a ridiculously big question. You have done a lot of deep thinking about the world, about yourself, this kind of introspection. How do you think, if you, by way of advice, but just practically speaking, day to day, how do you think about difficult problems with the world? - Mm. First of all, I take time off. Like my, the most important thing I do, I think as a writer, as a scientist, I meditate. I spend about two hours every day in silent meditation, observing as much as possible, non-verbally, what is happening within myself, focusing, you know, body sensations, the breath. Thoughts keep coming up, but I try not to give them attention. Don't try to drive them away. Just let them be there in the background, like some background noise. Don't engage with the thoughts, because the mind is constantly producing stories with words. These stories come between us and the world. They don't allow us to see ourselves or the world. Like for me, the most shocking thing, when I started meditating like 23 years ago, I was given the simple exercise to just observe my breath coming in and out of the nostrils, not controlling it, just observing it. And I couldn't do it for more than 10 seconds. I, for 10 seconds would try to notice, oh, now the breath is coming in, it's coming in, it's coming in. Oh, it stopped coming in and now it's going out, going out. 10 seconds, and some memory would come, some thought would come, some story about something that happened last week or 10 years ago, or in the future. And the story would hijack my attention. It would take me maybe five minutes to remember, oh, I'm supposed to be observing my breath. If I can't observe my own breath because of these stories created by the mind, how can I hope to understand much more complex things, like the political situation in Israel, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Russian invasion of Ukraine. If all these stories keep coming, I mean, it's not the truth, it's just the story your own mind created. So first thing, train the mind to be silent and just observe. So two hours every day. And I go every year for a long retreat between one month and two months, 60 days of just silent meditation. - [Lex Fridman] Silent meditation for 60 days? - Yeah. To train the mind, forget about your own stories, just observe what is really happening. And then also on other, throughout the day, have an information diet. People are, today, many people are very aware of what they feed their body, what enters their mouth. Be very aware of what you feed your mind, what enters your mind. Have an information diet. So for instance, I read long books, and I prefer, like, you know, I do many interviews. I prefer three hours interviews to five minutes interviews. The long format is in, it's not always feasible, but you can go much, much deeper. So I would say an information diet. Be very careful about what you feed your mind. Give preference to big chunks over small... - To books over Twitter. - Yes. Books over Twitter, definitely. And then, you know, when I encounter a problem, a difficult intellectual problem, then I give it, I let the problem lead me where it goes and not where I want it to go. If I approach a problem with some preconceived idea, solution, and then try to impose it on the problem, and you know, just find confirmation bias. Just find the evidence that supports my view. This is easy for the mind to do. And you don't learn anything new. - Do you take notes? Do you start to concretize your thoughts on paper? - I read a lot. Usually I don't take notes. Then I start writing. And when I write, I write like a torrent. Just write. Now it's the time, you read. You wanted meditation. Now it's the time to write, write, don't stop, just write. So I would write from memory and I'm not afraid of formulating, say, big ideas, big theories and putting them on paper. The danger is once it's on paper, not on paper, on the screen, in the computer, you get attached to it. And then you start with confirmation bias to build more and more layers around it. And you can't go back. And then it's very dangerous. But I trust myself that I have to some extent the ability to press the delete button. The most important button in the keyboard is delete. - Yeah, yeah. - I write and then I delete. I write and then I delete. And because I trust myself that I'll have the, every time I come to press delete button, I feel bad. Like it's a kind of pain. Hey, I created this. It's a beautiful idea and I have to delete it? - But you're still brave enough to press delete? - I try and hopefully I do it enough times. And this is important because in the long term, it enables me to play with ideas. I have the confidence to start formulating some brave idea. Most of them turn out to be nonsense. But I trust myself not to be attached, not to become attached to my own nonsense. So it gives me this room for playfulness. - I would be amiss if I didn't ask, for people interested in hearing you talk about meditation, if they wanna start meditating, what advice would you give on how to start? You mentioned you couldn't hold it for, you couldn't hold your attention on your breath for longer than 10 seconds. - Yes. - At first. So how do they start on this journey? - First of all, it's a difficult journey. It's not fun, it's not recreational, it's not kind of time to relax. It can be very, very intense. The most difficult thing, at least in the meditation I practice, vipassana, which I learned from a teacher called S. N. Goenka, the most difficult thing is not the silence, it's not the sitting for long hours. It's what comes up. Everything you don't want to know about yourself. - Yeah. - This is what comes up. So it's very intense and difficult. If you go to a meditation retreat, don't think you're going to relax. - So what's the experience of a meditation retreat when everything you don't like comes up for 30 days? - It depends what comes up. Anger comes up. You are angry. - Yeah. - For days on end, you're just boiling with anger. Everything makes you angry. Again, something that happens right now or you remember something from 20 years ago and you start boiling with, it's like, I never even thought about this incident, but it's somewhere, it was somewhere stored with a huge, huge pile of anger attached to it. And it's now coming up and all the anger is coming up. Maybe it's boredom. You know, 30 days of meditation, you start getting bored, and it's the most boring thing in... Suddenly no anger, no, it's the most boring... Another second and I scream. I mean, and boredom is one of the most difficult thing to deal with in life. I think it's closely related to death. Death is boring. You know, in many movies death is exciting. It's not exciting. When you die, it's, ultimately, it's boredom. Nothing happens. - It's the end of exciting things. - And many things in the world happened because of boredom. To some extent people start entire wars because of boredom. People quit relationships, people quit jobs because of boredom. And if you never learn how to deal with boredom, you will never learn how to enjoy peace and quiet. Because the way to peace passes through boredom. And from what I experienced with meditation, I think, maybe it was the most difficult, maybe at least in the top three, like much more difficult say than anger, or pain. When pain comes up, you feel heroic. Hey, I'm dealing with pain. When boredom comes up, it brings it, you know, with depression and feelings of worthlessness. And it's nothing, I'm nothing. - The way to peace is through boredom. David Foster Wallace said the key to life is to be unborable. - Which is a different perspective on what you're talking to. Is there truth to that? - Yes. I mean, it is closely related. I would say... Like I look at the world today, like politics. The one thing we need more than anything else is boring politicians. We have a super abundance of very exciting politicians who are doing and saying very exciting things. And we need boring politicians. And we need them quickly. - And yeah, the way to peace is through boredom. That applies in more ways than one. What advice would you give to young people today in high school and college? How to have a successful life? How to have a successful career? - What they should know it's the first time in history nobody has any idea how the world would look like in 10 years. - Yeah. - Nobody has any idea how the world would look like when you grow up. You know, throughout history, it was never possible to predict the future. You live in the Middle Ages, nobody knows maybe in 10 years the Vikings will invade, the Mongols will invade, there'll be an epidemic, there'll be an earthquake, who knows? But the basic structures of life will not change. Most people will still be peasants. Armies would fight on horseback with swords and bows and arrows and things like that. So you could learn a lot from the wisdom of your elders, they've been there before, and they knew what kind of basic skills you need to learn. Most people need to learn how to sow wheat and harvest wheat or rice and make bread and build a house and ride a horse and things like that. Now we have no idea, not just about politics. We have no idea how the job market would look like in 10 years. We have no ideas, no idea what skills will still be needed. You think you are going to learn how to code because there'll need a lot of coders in the 2030s? Think again. Maybe AI is doing all the coding. You don't need any coders. You are going to, I don't know, you learn to translate languages. You wanna be a translator? Gone. We don't know what skills will be needed. So the most important skill is the skill to keep learning and keep changing throughout our lives, which is very, very difficult. To keep reinventing ourselves. It's a deep, again, it's in a way a spiritual practice. To build your personality. To build your mind as a very flexible mind. If traditionally people thought about education, like building a stone house with very deep foundations, now it's more like setting up a tent that you can fold and move to the next place very, very quickly. 'Cause that's the 21st century. - Which also raises questions about the future of education. What that looks like. - Yeah. - Let me ask you about love. What were some of the challenges? What were some of the lessons about love, about life that you learn from coming out as gay? - In many ways it goes back to the stories. I think this is one of the reasons I became so interested in stories and in their power, was I grew up in a small Israeli town in the 1980s, early 1990s, which was very homophobic. And I basically embraced it. I breathed it. Because you could hardly even think differently. So you had these two powerful stories around, one, that God hates gay people and that he will punish them for who they are or for what they do. Secondly, that it's not God, it's nature. That there is something diseased or sick about it. And these people, maybe they're not sinners, but they are sick, they are defective. And nobody wanted to identify with such a thing. If your options, okay, you can be a sinner, you can be a defect, but what do you want? No good options there. And it took me many years till I was 21 to come to term with it. And one of the things, I learned two things, first about the amazing capacity of the human mind for denial and delusion that an algorithm could have told me that I'm gay when I was like 14 or 15. Like if there is a good looking guy and girl walking, I would immediately focus on the guy. But I didn't connect the dots. Like I could not understand what was happening inside my own brain and my own mind and my own body. Took me a long time to realize, you know, you are just gay. - So that speaks to the power of social convention versus individual thought. - It's virtually this is the power of self delusion that, you know, it's not that I knew I was gay and was hiding it. I was hiding it from myself successfully. That I don't understand how it is possible, looking back, I don't understand how it is possible, but I know it is possible. I knew and didn't know at the same time. And then the other big lesson is the power of the stories, of the social conventions. Because the stories were not true. They did not make sense even on their own terms. Even if you accept the basic religious framework of the world, that there is a good God that created everything and controls everything. Why would a good God punish people for love? I understand why a good God would punish people for violence, for hatred, for cruelty. But why would God punish people for love, especially when he created them that way? So even if you accept the religious framework of the world, obviously the story that God hates gay people, it comes not from God, but from some humans who invented this story. They take their own hatred. This is something humans do all the time. They hate somebody and they say, no, I don't hate them. God hates them. They throw their own hatred on God. And then if you think about the scientific framework that said that, oh, gays, they are against nature. They are against the laws of nature. They're, and so forth. Science tells us nothing can exist against the laws of nature. Things that go against the laws of nature just don't exist. There is a law of nature that you can't move faster than the speed of light. Now you don't have this minority of people who break the laws of nature by going faster than the speed of light. And then nature comes, nah, that's bad. You shouldn't do that. That's not how nature works. If something goes against the laws of nature, it just can't exist. The fact that gay people exist me, and not just people. You see homosexuality among many, many mammals and birds and other animals. It exists because it is in line with the laws of nature. The idea that this is sick, that this is whatever, it comes not from nature, it comes from the human imagination. Some people, or for whatever reasons, hated gay people. They said, oh, they go against nature. But this is a story created by people. This is not the laws of nature. And this taught me that so many of the things that we think are natural or eternal or divine, no, they're just human stories. But these human stories are often the most powerful forces in the world. - So what did you learn from your, just a personal struggle of journey through the social conventions to find one of the things that makes life awesome, which is love? So like what it takes to kinda strip away the self delusion and the pressures of social convention, to wake up. - It takes a lot of work, a lot of courage and a lot of help from other people. This kind of, again, heroic idea, I can do it all by myself, it doesn't work. Certainly with love, you need at least one more person. And I'm very happy that I found Itzik. We lived in the same small Israeli town. We lived on two adjacent streets for years. Probably went to school on the same bus for years without really encountering each other. In the end, we met on one of the first dating sites on the internet for gay people in Israel in 2002. - You're saying the internet works? - Yes. And I said- - For love? - Bad things or dangers about technology and the internet. And there are also, of course, good things. And this is not an accident. You have two kinds of minorities in history. You have minorities which are a cohesive group like Jews, that yes, you're a small, being born Jewish in, say, Germany or Russia or whatever. You are born in a small community. But as a Jewish boy, you are born to a Jewish family. You have Jewish parents, you have Jewish siblings, you are in a Jewish neighborhood, you have Jewish friends. So these kinds of minorities, they could always come together and help each other throughout history. Now, another type of minority, like gay people or more broadly LGBTQ people, that as a gay boy, you are usually not born to a gay family with gay parents and gay siblings in a gay neighborhood. So usually you find yourself completely alone. For most of history, one of the biggest problems for the gay community was that there was no community. How do you find one another? And the internet was a wonderful thing in this respect because it made it very easy for these kinds of diffused communities, so diffused minorities to find each other. So me and Itzik, even though we rode the same bus together to school for years, we didn't meet in the physical world, we met online, because again, in the physical world, you don't want to identify, in a Israeli town in the 1980s, you ride the bus, you don't want to say, "Hey, I'm gay, is there anybody else gay here?" That's not a good idea. But on the internet we could find each other. - There's another lesson in there that maybe sometimes the thing you're looking for is right under your nose. - Yeah. A very old lesson and a very true lesson in many ways. So you need help from other people to realize the truth about yourself. So of course, in love, you cannot just love abstractly. There is another person there, you need to find them. But also, you know, we were one of the first generations who enjoy the benefits of gay liberation, of the very difficult struggles of people who are much braver than us in the 1980s, 1970s, 1960s, who dared to question social conventions, to struggle at sometimes a terrible price. And we benefited from it. And more broadly, we spoke earlier about the feminist movement. There would've been no gay liberation without the feminist movement. We also owe them a for, you know, starting to change the gender structure of the world. And this is always true. You can never do it just by yourself. Also, I look at my journey in meditation. I could not have found... I mean, the idea of going to meditation retreat. Okay. But I couldn't discover meditation by, I couldn't develop the meditation technique by myself. Somebody had to teach me this way of how to look inside yourself. And it's also a very important lesson that you can't do it just by yourself. That this fantasy of complete autonomy, of complete self-sufficiency, it doesn't work. You hear, it tends to be a very kind of male macho fantasy. I don't need anybody. I can be so strong and so brave that I'll do everything by myself. It never works. - You need friends, you need a mentor. You need the very thing that makes us human is other humans. - Absolutely. - You mentioned that the fear of boredom might be a kind of proxy for the fear of death. So what role does the fear of death play in the human condition? Are you afraid of death? - Yes. I think everybody are afraid of death. I mean, all our fears come out of the fear of death, but the fear of death is just so deep and difficult. We can't, usually we can't face it directly. So we cut it into little pieces and we face just little pieces. Oh, I lost my smartphone. That's a little, little, little piece of the fear of death, which is of losing everything. So I can't deal with losing everything, I'm dealing now with losing my phone or losing a book or whatever. Somebody, I feel pain... That's a small bit of the fear of death. Somebody who really doesn't fear death, would not fear anything at all. There will be like anything that happens, I can deal with it. If I can deal with death, this is nothing. - So any fears is a distant echo of the big fear of death? Have you ever looked at it head on, caught glimpses, sort of contemplated as the stoics do? - Yes. I mean, and when I was a teenager, I would constantly contemplate it, trying to understand, to imagine, it was a very, very shocking and moving experience. I remember, especially in connection, like with, you know, with national ideology, which was also very big strong in Israel, still is. Which again comes from the fear of death. You know that you're going to die. So you said, okay, I die, but the nation lives on, I live on through the nation, I don't really die. And you hear it, especially on Memorial Day, day for fallen soldiers. So every day they'll be in school Memorial Day for fallen soldiers who fell defending Israel in all its different wars. And all these kids would come dressed in white. And you have this big ceremony with flags and songs and dances in memory of the fallen soldiers. And you get the impression, again, I don't want it to sound crass, but you got the impression that the best thing in life is to be a fallen soldier. Because even then, yes, you die, everybody dies in the end. But then you'll have all these school kids for years and years remembering you and celebrating you and you don't really die. And I remember standing in these ceremonies and thinking, what does it actually mean? Like, okay, so if I'm a fallen soldier, now I'm a skeleton. I'm bones under this, in this military cemetery, under this stone. Do I actually hear the kids singing all these patriotic songs? If not, how do I know they do it? Maybe they trick me. Maybe I die in the war and then they don't sing any songs. And how does it help me? And I realized, I was quite young at the time, that if you are dead, you can't hear anything because you, that's the meaning of being dead. And if you're dead, you can't think of anything. Like, oh, now they're remembering... Because you are dead. That's the meaning of being dead. And it was a shocking realization. - But it's a really difficult realization to keep holding in your mind. Like it's the end. - I lost it over time. I mean, for many years, it was a very powerful fuel, motivation for philosophical, for spiritual exploration. And I realized that the fear of death is really a very powerful drive. And over the years, especially as I meditated, it kind of dissipated, and today sometimes I find myself trying to recapture this teenage fear of death because it was so powerful. And I just can't. I try to make the same image. I don't know. It's... - There's something about the teenage years. - Yeah, I always thought that the adults, there is something wrong with the adults. - Yeah. - Because they don't get it. - Yeah. Like I would ask my parents or teachers about it and they, oh yes, you die in the end. That's it. But, and on the other hand, they're so worried about other things. - Yeah. - Like there'll be a political crisis or an economic problem or a personal problem, like with the bank or whatever. They'll be so worried. But then about the fact that they're going to die, ah, we don't care about it. - That's why you read Camus and others when you're a teenager, you really worry about the existential questions. Well, this feels like the right time to ask the big question. What's the meaning of this whole thing, Yuval? And you're the right person to ask, what's the meaning of life? - Meaning of life? - Yes. - Oh, that's easy. - What is it? (both laughing) - So what life is, if you ask what the meaning of life, what life is, life is feeling things, having sensations, emotions, and reacting to them. When you feel something good, something pleasant, you want more out of it, you want more of it. When you feel something unpleasant, you want to get rid of it. That's the whole of life. That's what is happening all the time. You feel things, you want the pleasant things to increase. You want the unpleasant things to disappear. That what life is. If you ask what is the meaning of life in a more kind of philosophical or spiritual question, the real question to ask what kind of answer do you expect? Most people expect a story. And that's always the wrong answer. Most people expect that the answer to the question that what is the meaning of life will be a story, like a big drama, that this is the plot line and this is your role in the story. This is what you have to do. This is your line in the big play. You say your line, you do your thing... That's the thing. And this is human imagination. This is fantasy. To really understand life, life is not a story. The universe does not function like a story. So I think to really understand life, you need to observe it directly in a nonverbal way. Don't turn it into a story. And the question to start with is what is suffering? What is causing suffering? You know, the question, what is the meaning of life? It'll take you to fantasies and delusions. We want to stay with the reality of life. And the most important question about the reality of life is what is suffering and where is it coming from? - And to answer that non-verbally, so the conscious experience of suffering. - Yes. When you suffer, try to observe what is really happening when you are suffering. - Well put. And I wonder if AI will also go through that same kind of process, on its way- - And if we develop consciousness or not, at present, it's not, it's just words. - It will just say to you, "Please don't hurt me, Yuval" (both laughing) Again, as I've mentioned to you, I'm a huge fan of yours. Thank you for the incredible work you do. This conversation's been a long time, I think, coming. It's a huge honor to talk to you. This is really fun. Thank you for talking today. - Thank you. I really enjoyed it. And as I said, I think the long form is the best form. - (laughs) Yeah. I loved it. Thank you. Thanks for listening to this conversation with Yuval Noah Harari. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from Yuval Noah Harari himself. "How do you cause people to believe in an imagined order such as Christianity, democracy, or capitalism? First, you never admit that the order is imagined." Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time. 