And it's funny, the thing I got made fun of the most for that was the wardrobe. And that came from after three months in the administration, we were having dinner with all the generals and they were saying, updating us on the war with ISIS. And General Dunford said to me after, look, the president can't come to see how we're fighting this war, but I'd like to invite you to come with me to Iraq and come see. And would you come with me? I said, no, that's great. I always learned in business that you can't make decisions from just an ivory tower. You have to go to the front lines and see what's actually happening. So I said, no problem, I'd love to go. Meanwhile, two days before I'm about to go, the doc from the White House stops by my office and says, we need to get your blood type. So what do you mean my blood type is? You're going to an active war zone. I'm like, okay, so I guess I'll go to a war zone. I didn't really think this thing fully through. So I get on the plane with Dunford and we land in Iraq and he looks like G.I. Joe. He's a great general. He's very, very well-respected in the military. And we go in and we get on Black Hawk helicopter. They said, you know what, today's a nice day. Let's take the sides off. And so I get on the plane and there's a guy, a military service officer who then takes a machine gun, locks it into a thing, takes the bullets, puts them into the gun and is sitting there saying, we're ready to go. And then I'm looking out and there's like three other helicopters with guys. One was an Osprey with a guy buckled in, also with a machine gun looking out. We take off and we're flying over Baghdad from the airport to the embassy. And as we're going, I'm sitting in an open air helicopter with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, guys with machine guns everywhere. And so- This is a new experience for you. You haven't experienced this previously. I would say slightly. I was doing real estate like three months ago, you know? Now I'm flying over Iraq and the chairman says, that's Saddam Hussein's palace. And I look down, there's like a big bomb right through the middle. Then you see the area with the two swords in the hands. I'm saying to myself, like, how the hell did I get here? Like, well, what is happening? So meanwhile, we ended up going to the front lines to be with the service, the Iraqi military, which the US military was working closely with. And I had a meeting that night with the president of Iraq. And so I wore, what do you wear to the front lines in a battle zone and also meet the president. So I put a sports jacket on. We land at the front line and they give me a bulletproof vest that says Kushner on it. I tape it. I just, I put it on, I go out and I cover the NER. So it just said, Kush. And I went and I didn't realize they were taking pictures. And so- I think the picture looks pretty epic. You with sunglasses, I think I love it. So anyway, so that was the funny story behind that. And then actually my brother was at some society event in New York and he ran into Jimmy Fallon. So the two of them took a selfie together and Josh writes me, he says, hanging out with my older brother in New York. I'm trying to explain to him what your voice sounds like. So it was good. So that was a funny one. But I think just being behind the scenes for me just gave me more maneuverability in the sense that, again, it goes back to trust and people knowing that I wasn't gonna try to publicize the things they were telling me. I think it just gave me more ability to operate that way. And I also realized too, communicating is a very important skill. Luckily in Washington, there's no shortage of amazing communicators. I think there were a lot of people who are much better at me than being communicators. So I was very happy that they were willing to do it because it wasn't something that I had a lot of experience with or necessarily I thought I was very good at. And so I kind of just did my job and just focused on getting things done. So let me ask you, you have a very interesting life. If you were to give advice to young folks on how to have such an impactful life, what would you say? Career and life. How to have a successful career and a successful life. Number one is I would say you just have to work hard at everything you do. Number two, I would say never stop learning and always try to say yes more than you should. Go out of your comfort zone. And I think just you gotta work hard at everything you do. And if you're gonna take something on, do it the best you can. One of the lessons I write about in the book from my father was, I remember I was going for a job interview and he asked me, he says, well, what time are you leaving to the job interview? It was at nine o'clock. I said, I'll leave at eight o'clock. He says, well, what if there's-I said, dad, I've done this drive a thousand times, like there's never traffic. So what if there's an accident? I said, I can't control that. He said, Jared, the only excuse you ever have for being late is that you didn't leave early enough. And I just think it's something where if you want to accomplish something, you know, a lot of people I hear, they complain about what other people do or why it's hard or why it's impossible. And again, I say this as somebody who's been so blessed with so many things in life, but you know, when I've had challenges or things I've wanted to achieve, I just focus and say, what can I do? And I'll read everything I can get my hands on. If I fail at one, the door closes, I'll try the window. If the window closes, I'll try the chimney. If the chimney closes, I'll try to dig a tunnel. It's just, if you want to accomplish something, you just have to go at it. And, you know, I think the most important thing I'll say, sorry, I'm kind of thinking my way into this answer, is just do the right thing. I think that's also right. And I saw that in my career, you know, be good to people, be honest, do the right thing. And if you do that, I think long-term, it does pay off. Maybe not in politics, but in the world at large, it does. And my hope is in politics, it will as well. I wonder if you can comment on your process of learning in general, because you took on so many new, interesting problems and approached them with a first principles kind of approach. So what was your source of information? Because you didn't seem to be listening to the assumptions of the prior experts. You were just taking on the problem in a very pragmatic perspective. So what was, how'd you learn about the Middle East? How did you learn about China? How did you learn about Mexico? How did you, you know, like all of these prison reform, all of this that you've taken on and were extremely effective at? It really started with just talking to people. I would try to reach out to people who had been involved in different things and ask them, you know, what they did, what they thought of the problem, who they thought was smart on it, what they read that helped them get a better understanding why they think something had failed. And then I would just, you know, read voraciously on every topic. You know, Washington, it was harder to get advice from humans because I found humans had this weird tendency to talk to the media. And so, you know, I talked to somebody and I'd ask advice. And then the next thing I'd know is the Washington Post would call and say, Jared's an idiot, doesn't know what he's doing. He's even going to this person to get advice. I'm like, yeah, I'm asking everyone. So books really became an amazing guide for me. Ivanka, she's an incredible researcher. She's just voracious. And so she gave me some of my best books and some incredible advice as well. But that was really the process. And then I think that was kind of the first stage. And then the second stage was just constant iteration and readjusting plan as you continue to get more learning. And one story I tell in the book as well is that on my first trip to the Middle East, where I met with Mohammed bin Zayed, who I spoke about earlier, the ruler of UAE, I spent two hours with him asking him questions and really going through the Israeli-Palestinian issue, the Israeli-Arab issue. And he said to me at the end of the meeting, he says, Jared, I think you're gonna make peace here in the Middle East. And I was shocked because, I mean, first of all, he was, you know, at the time, I think one of the most respected leaders in the region, somebody who I found to be very wise and super thoughtful and experienced. And I said to him, why do you say that? I was flattered, obviously, but not certain why he was saying that based on the fact that I didn't know what my plan was. I didn't know what I was gonna do and I had no pathway to make peace. And he said, well, the US usually sends one of three different kinds of people to come see me. He says, the first are people who come and they fall asleep in meetings. He said, the second are people who come and they basically read me notes but have no ability to interact on the message they're there to convey. And then the third have been people who have come to convince me to do things that aren't in my interests. He says, you're the first person who's ever come here and has just asked questions. He says, why have you done that? I said, because I figure, you know, this problem's been going on for a long time. You live here, I'll be gone at some point. You're gonna have to live with the consequences of whatever my work is. And the US has a lot of power. And my question is, what would you do if you were me? And how would you approach this and help me think about it? And again, I wasn't gonna then take his plan and then execute it, but I thought it'd be very provocative to understand from the people in the region and instructive how they would use the resource and the power that the US had to solve the problems that were having significant impact on their lives. Yeah, there's a lot of power to the sort of the simplicity of that human approach where you're just listening. Yeah, and one of my wishes for society is I leave government. You know, I was living on the Upper East Side in a very liberal echo chamber. I then traveled the country. I met so many people who I never would have met otherwise on the conservative side, on the independent side, on so many different issues. I think that people benefit. If you have such a strong point of view, I would follow the John Stuart Mill marketplace of ideas and find people who disagree with you and don't call them names. Don't say they're a bad person. Say, I wanna understand why you feel the way you do. Let's have conversations in this country. And I think that that's probably gonna be our best way to work through the issues that we have currently. When you zoom out and look at the 21st century from a human history perspective, across the timescale of many decades, maybe centuries, what gives you hope about human civilization, everything you've seen? You've traveled the world, you've talked to some of the most powerful and influential people, and you look at the future, what gives you hope about this little planet of ours? What gives me the most hope is that anything's possible. If there's one lesson that I took from my time in government it's that people coming together to try to make tomorrow different than yesterday can succeed. And if the right people in the right places focus on the right ideas, I think the advancement that we can have for human history and for society can be tremendous. And I think that right now, I see we're at a place in society where there's a lot of what I call squabbles between countries, which are really man versus man issues. And those are as old as time, right? We've been fighting about borders or religion or who wronged somebody 100 or 1,000 years ago. And these are what I call more tribal battles. But I do think that as we advance with artificial intelligence, as energy becomes cheaper and it's more readily available, I think we're gonna have massive industrialization. I think we're gonna have massive advancement. I think in medical and science, we're gonna have cures for diseases. We have the potential in 10, 20 years from now to enter a dawn for humanity that could be incredible. We could become multi-planetary. We can explore the wonders of the world. We can find things we didn't know. So I think that if we put our energy towards finding these advancements that will improve the lives of everyone on this planet instead of figuring out ways to have these tensions between us, that for me is the most optimistic case for what's possible. And the reason why I believe it's possible is because somebody with no experience, somebody who all I really had was the faith of a leader and I had the courage to try. And I went out there with other people and we took on some of the most hopeless, impossible problems and we succeeded. And if we were able to do that, then everyone else should be able to do that as well. Well, Jared, thank you for having the courage to try. Thank you for your friendship, for your kindness, most importantly for your book recommendations. And thank you for talking today. This was fascinating, eye-opening. I hope to have many more conversations like this. Thank you very much, Lex. Thank you for listening to this conversation with Jared Kushner. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from Mahatma Gandhi. An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind. Thank you for listening. And I hope to see you next time.