I would say that most people in government, it's just a different form of negotiation than you see in the private sector and way less effective in that regard, which is why I think it's good the more we can encourage more people with private sector experience to do a stint in government and to really try to contribute and serve their country. That's how our founders, I mean, George Washington and all the founding fathers, they were working on their farms. They left their farms serving government and they went back to the farm. And that was kind of the design of the representative government. It wasn't a career political class. It was people coming in to show gratitude for the freedoms and liberties that they enjoyed and then do their best to kind of help others have those same opportunities that they had. And then they'd go back and live their lives. And so I think that there's a lot of opportunity with our government of people with more business mindsets who are gonna think about things from a solutions perspective, go and serve. Is that one of the main problems here? So you also mentioned the book, The Great Degeneration by Neil Ferguson, an awesome historian who's been on this podcast. It helped you understand the inefficiencies of government regulation. I'd love it if you can give an insight into why government is so inefficient at times. Like when it is inefficient, when it doesn't work, why is that the case? The bureaucracy that you spoke to, the negative aspects of the bureaucracy. So we don't have enough time on this podcast to go into it, but it's, look, there's a lot of aspects that work as well, right? But I do think we've gotten too big. You know, Neil's book that you mentioned, one of the things that I took from that, I read it, I think in 2012, right? Kind of in the middle of the great financial crisis was, he was talking about how government regulation often was put in place to deal with old crises, right? So it was never gonna solve future problems. It was more to kind of create, to solve for problems that had happened in the past. And I remember thinking about that. One thing I was very proud of, of the work of the Trump administration was that you had four years consecutively where there was a net decrease in the cost of regulations. So to give you a context, in the last year of Obama in 2016, there were 6 million man hours spent by the private sector complying with new federal regulations. And that's not really what the intent of our government was, right? If we have rules or regulations, those should be legislated by Congress. They shouldn't be put in by bureaucrats who are basically saying, I wanna follow this objective. So using kind of the power of the pen in order to do that. So the deregulatory effort was actually very critical to Trump's economic success that happened at the beginning of the administration. And then what I saw with regulation was anytime either there was legislation or regulation coming, the people pushing for it were usually the people who would benefit from the regulatory captures. You had these, you look at the great financial crisis where you had this big banking reforms. Well, what happened during the big banking reforms? Then you had a big reduction in the amount of banks that occurred in the big banks became even bigger. Whereas I don't think that was the intention of the legislation, but the people who are writing the legislation and influencing it had a lot of the constituencies from those larger institutions. And then what happened as a result of that? A lot of these smaller institutions didn't have the ability to be as competitive. They had more restrictions, more costs, they became less profitable, but these were the banks that were serving small business, which is the biggest creator of jobs in our country. And then as a result, the bigger banks got more powerful and what happened in the country, as a result of the regulations that they put in place, the wealth gap in the country grew, it didn't shrink. And so I think oftentimes what they say these regulations are intended to be, the result often becomes the opposite. And so what President Trump did in his administration was they did a massive deregulatory effort. And I think they pledged that for every one regulation they put on, because you do need some regulation in an economy and in a society, they would take off too. And in the first year, they limited eight regulations for every one. And so that was just something I took from it, which was, I thought, very interesting. And you had to really, I think you just have to think through what are the consequences gonna be of the different actions you take. And often government gets it wrong by taking an action that feels right, but has big negative consequences down the road. Let's go to some difficult topics. You've wrote in the book about your experience with some very low points in government. You've been attacked quite a bit. One of the ones that stands out is the accusations of collusion with Russia. And you tell in the book, in general, this whole story, this whole journey on a personal level, on a sort of big political level. Can you tell me some aspects of this story? Sure, so to give the listeners some context, and people remember this now, it's been kind of swept away because it turned out not to be true, was that after President Trump won the election in 2016, instead of the media saying, oh, we were wrong, because again, everyone thought he had zero chance of winning, they said, okay, well, we couldn't have been wrong. It must have been the Russians who worked with him. And so at first, when this started coming up, I thought this was ridiculous. I was very intimately involved with the operations of the campaign. I was running the finance of the campaign. I was running the digital media of the campaign. I was running the schedule for the campaign. And I knew that on most days, we had trouble coordinating with ourselves, let alone collaborating with another government, and colluding, as they called it. And so we did a great job, I think, as an underdog campaign, very leanly staffed. And then they said that we were working with the Russians. And so at the time, I didn't take it too seriously, because I knew there was no truth to it. But it was amazing to me to start seeing all of these institutions, whether it was CNN, The Washington Post, New York Times, these were news organizations that I grew up having a lot of respect for, taking these accusations so seriously, and then working themselves up in order to just cover it for two years. And as a result, you had a special counsel, you had a House investigation, a Senate investigation. And I personally spent about, I think, over 20 hours just testifying before these different committees. Again, spent millions of dollars out of my own pocket on my legal fees to make sure I was well-represented. And the reason I did that was because I saw in Washington, it was like a sick game, right? It's almost like, even though there was no underlying problems to the accusation, I felt like this is one of those things where they're gonna try to catch you. And then if you step on the line, they catch you with one misrepresentation, they're gonna try to put you in jail or worst. And so for me, that was a big concern. So, and it was amazing. I mean, my poor mom, I told her to stop reading whatever. I said, I promise you, we didn't do anything wrong. It's good. But she'd call me and say, well, our friends were on the Upper East Side, we're talking with Chuck Schumer. He says, Jared's going to jail. We know for sure that he colluded with the Russians. And this is like a leading senator saying things like this. And so it was just interesting for me to see how the whole world could believe something and be talking about it that I knew with 1000% certainty was just not true. And so seeing that play out was very, very hard. Obviously, I was accused of a lot of things. There were times in Washington, I was radioactive. I remember one weekend, it was all over CNN, the people, the panels on CNN, like the news organization that I grew up thinking was like the number one trusted name for news in the world, talking about how I'd committed treason because I met with an ambassador and said, we'd like to hear your perspective on what you think the policy should be in Syria, where there was a big civil war happening and ISIS and a lot of different things. So it was quite a crazy time in that regard. But luckily, again, we were able to fight through it. It was a major distraction for our administration. I think we were able to kind of stay focused on the objectives and the policies, but it was a crazy time. And I learned a lot from that experience. It's crazy how just an accusation can be viral and can just go. One of the things that worries me is the effect on your mind, the psychology of it, to make sure it doesn't make you cynical. Like people that are trying to do stuff, those kinds of stories that can destroy their mind. So one of the things I'd love to sort of understand, you kind of rolled in from the business world and all of a sudden the entire world, from CNN to everybody's accusing you of colluding with the Russians. Like what do you, like when you're sitting at home, how do you keep a calm mind, a clear mind, an optimistic one that doesn't become cynical and actually just keep trying to push on and do stuff in the world? So it was a surreal experience. I would say number one is I felt very confident that I hadn't done anything wrong. So I would always tell my lawyer, like the good news is I've got a good fact problem, right? Like I need a good lawyer to get me through it, but it's much easier to be a good lawyer if you have a very innocent client. And so the fact that I knew that I didn't have, I didn't believe that I had any legal liability helped me kind of intellectually separate the challenge I needed to do to fight through it from it. And then I just basically said, like I'd had hardship earlier in my life where I dealt with the situation with my father. And what I realized there is that you can't really spend energy on the things that you don't control. All you can do is spend your time and energy worrying about what you can control and then how you react to the things that you have there. And so it took a lot of discipline. It took a lot of strength. And again, I give my wife Ivanka and even Donald a lot of credit for kind of having my back during that time and encouraging me just to kind of fight through it. And then I also had to make sure that I didn't allow that to distract me from my job. I felt like I had an amazing opportunity in the White House to make a difference in the world. And if I would have spent all my time playing defense, in politics, it's a time duration game. In business, you have whatever duration you set for yourself. In politics, it's time duration. We had four.years. Every day was sand through an hourglass. My mindset was, I need to accomplish as much as I can in these four years. I guess the traditional game that's played in Washington is, whether it's the media, the opposition, their job is to distract you and then try to stop you from being as successful as you want to be. Just fought through it. It wasn't always fun, but we got through and thank God it's something people don't talk about. It has been amazing to me, just the lack of self-awareness and reflection of a lot of the people who hyped this up for two years. They don't think there was anything wrong with it. That's interesting, but my view is we got through it. It's good. It's in the past. Then I started moving to the future and that's really where I spent my time. I want to linger on it because to me, that has a really discouraging effect on anyone who's trying to do positive in the world. These kinds of attacks are intense. That means you say one of the lessons you learned is that you really have to be perfect, but I hate that to be the lesson. I feel like you should be able to do stupid stuff, take big risks, and people celebrate the big risks and not try to weave gigantic stories over nothing. I just want to understand the two aspects of this, how to not have such stories of so much legs, and the other is how to stay psychologically strong. You waved it off that you didn't have a fact problem, but it can just have an effect on your psyche. You seem to be pretty stoic about the whole thing, but just on the psychology side, how did you stay calm and not become cynical where you can continue to do stuff and take big risks? I didn't have a choice. What do you mean? I could have spent every day feeling sorry for myself or complaining or saying things aren't fair, but the general way I looked at it was that in life, every opportunity has a cost. You could look at it and say maybe this was a massive cost either in dollars or in time or in reputation or in emotional drain, but you could also say that I had an opportunity to work in the White House and I had an opportunity to work on some of the hardest challenges. You talk about how that's not celebrated. That is something very different. In the private sector, when you take on big challenges, that is celebrated. In government, when you take on big challenges, people want to see it fail or they want to criticize those people who are trying to take that on. I think that's wrong. I think that as a country, we should be thinking big, we should be dreaming big, and we should be encouraging our politicians to try and to fail more and to go and to take on big things knowing that there's risk of failing. Obviously, we want them to succeed, not to fail, but let's take on the big things. Let's try to do that. I think it's just very basic that you're in a situation, I've made decisions, I can't go back and change decisions in the past. I still felt very blessed to be in the position I was in and I knew that I just had to work through it. Like I said, I was very lucky to have support from my wife and from my family and from good friends. Again, I think I'd chosen very good friends in life and my friends were with me. I had one friend who, my lowest moment, got on the plane, he lived in Arizona, got on a plane and came just to have dinner with me to say, just pick your head up, I know you're down now, you're going to be fine, just fight through. That meant a lot to me. Again, I always think in my life, you don't learn as much from your successes, you don't learn as much from your high points, you learn the most about who you want to be and how the world works from your lowest moments. At those lowest moments, it made me better and it taught me how to be a better friend to people who are in tough situations. I tried to just get tougher and I tried to just get better and work through it. Yeah, you said that you and Ivanka, this intense time brought you together and helped you deal with the intensity of the chaos of it all. So I think it was just number one, knowing that you had a partner and knowing that you had somebody who loved you and believed in you. I think that was definitely by far the biggest of anything and- Love is the answer. Love is very important. But then there's also a lot that I've learned from her, always getting me to read different books or learn different things, which I love. But she's also, I think, an amazing role model. I go through our time in Washington where there were so many people who were, I thought, very nasty to her unfoundedly. I'm not talking about individually because, again, most people interacted with her were super kind, but I would see people on Twitter or different places go after her and she always stayed elegant. And I felt like that was something that she never stooped down to a lower level. She kept her elegance the whole time. And she really went to Washington wanting to be a force of good. And I see all the time that she follows her heart, she does what's right, and she has a very strong moral compass. And I feel very lucky to have her as a partner and I respect her tremendously. Yeah, she walks the fire with grace, I would say. And she's recommended a bunch of amazing books to me and she has an incredible, a fascinating mind. But one thing that jumped out to me is you both love diners, Jersey diners. So I lived in Philly for a while and I've, you know, I traveled quite a bit and traveling from Boston down to Philly, maybe to DC, you can drive through Jersey. There's something about Jersey. I don't know what it is. It's the best. You listen to Bruce Springsteen. Louis C.K. has this bit where I think it's part of criticizing cell phones today where people are too much on their phone. They don't just sit there, be bored. But he uses that story to tell where he's just driving and the Bruce Springsteen song comes on and he just wants to pull over to the side of the road and just like weep for no unexplainable reason. And I think that's true because life is difficult. Life is full of suffering or struggle or challenges. Sometimes it's always Bruce Springsteen, but some kind of song like this can really make you reflect on life, that melancholy feeling. But that melancholy feeling is the other side of the happiness coin, where if you just allow yourself to feel that pain, you can also feel the highest joys. That's the point Louis C.K. makes. And there's something about Jersey with the diners often late at night. There's several diner experiences, I should say. There's the family-friendly, there's a nice waitress, there's a sweetness, a kindness, hello, sweetheart, that kind of thing. There's also the 3 a.m. diner, the ones that are open 24 hours, that has a romantic element when you're a young man or young woman, you're traveling, the loneliness of that, just all of it. The American diner is like, from like Jack Kerouac on, represents something. I'm not sure what that is, but it's like a real beautiful experience. And the food itself too. Always fresh, yeah. The thing with diners, there's so much to love about them. And I grew up obviously in New Jersey when I'd go with my father to business, he'd always stop and we'd eat at a diner. Late night, I'd be coming back with my friends, we'd stop at a diner. And it's a tradition that Ivanka and I love doing as well. And I think there's a notion of, it's very egalitarian in that people from all places are there. You could order basically whatever you want. I mean, the menus at the diners look like the phone book. And it's amazing how they keep so much fresh ingredients to do it, at least the good ones do. I'd love as a Jersey guy to get mozzarella sticks and an omelet at any hour of the day, because most of them are open 24 hours. And that's basically my Ivanka, my go-to, we'll throw in a milkshake or two as well. But for me as a kid, my father would take me, sometimes I'd sit with him in the meeting, sometimes I'd be at the table next to him. He'd give me a bunch of quarters to put in the music machine that they would have on the wall. And it was always just a great experience doing it. In Jersey, and I joke that if you grew up in Jersey, you grew up with just enough of a chip on your shoulder that you have to go and make something of yourself in life. It's a special place. I had an amazing childhood there and very, very proud to be from the state. And I will just give a little bit of a plug now, because the state has now actually turned the corner and they had a $10 billion budget surplus for many years. It was a state that was basically bankrupt. And now actually under a pretty progressive Democrat governor, Phil Murphy, he's turned the state around and it's actually has a very bright future ahead. And it's probably one of the best places to raise a family in the country. It's got very low crime, one of the best public school systems in the country, pretty good healthcare system, a lot of green parks. People know the Turnpike, but it's got a lot to it that's really great. So I'm a big, big fan of Jersey. I like how this is a first for this particular podcast. You literally gave a plug to a state. So New Jersey, everybody. It's where it's at. There's South Jersey, there's North Jersey. I mean, there's all kinds of Jerseys too. I mean, the whole thing, it just, I- And don't get me started on the Jersey Shore, Lex. Jersey Shore is a whole thing. And I'm not talking about the snooky part. I'm talking about the real nice parts where there's great food, great people. What do you mean nice parts? It's all beautiful. The full range of human characters that are in New Jersey are all beautiful. I agree with that. And every time I travel across the world, there's always to meet somebody from New Jersey, and you kind of give a nod of deep understanding. It's the cradle of civilization in many ways. Okay. So back, I don't know how we got there. Oh, all right. Going back to the low points. You mentioned your father, if we could just return there. Even just the personal story of your father that you write about, that other betrayal that happened in his life, and then how he responds to that betrayal. And he was after that arrested. Can you just tell the story? Sure. So my father is an amazing person.