And we grew up in New Jersey. My father was a big developer, a great entrepreneur, built an amazing business. He got into a dispute with two of his siblings. And through that dispute, they basically took all of the documents in his company, went to the US Attorney's Office, and turned from a civil dispute into a real public dispute. My father did something wrong in that process. And when he got arrested for that, he basically said, what I did was wrong. And he took his medicine, and he did it like a man. And he said, I'm going to go to prison. And he did that for a year. And so for me, that was a very challenging time in the family, obviously. It was a shock. It was a total change. I mean, I grew up, my childhood was, I think, a very nice childhood. My parents always said, do good in school, work hard. I was very focused on my athletics. I was captain of the basketball team, captain of the hockey team. I ran a marathon with my father. And it was always about pursuing. I went to Harvard, graduated with honors. And then I was in NYU pursuing a law degree and a business degree. And I was working at the Manhattan District Attorney's Office at the time, actually thinking I wanted to go into public service because my father always taught us. We were always surrounded by politicians. And he always said, my parents came to America. They lived in the land of opportunity. And they had these opportunities because this is the best country in the world. And so you should be successful, work hard. Don't ever let your opportunities become your disadvantages because you have advantages in life. You have to work harder. And that's what he instilled in myself and my brother. And he always pushed us to make the most of ourselves. And when we did that, everything changed overnight when my father got arrested. Obviously, it's very embarrassing for a family when you're on the front page of the papers. I would see the newspapers writing all these things about my father that I didn't think were representative of the person that I knew. It was a big change for our family. And I was angry. I said, I could be angry at the prosecutor. I could be angry at my father's brother. I could be angry at my father's lawyers. I could be angry at my father for making this mistake. And then I said, that's not going to change anything. And I had a real shift. And I do think that that was a turning point in my life where I basically said, let me focus on the things I can control. Let me focus on the positive things I can do. And from that moment forward, I said, how can I be a great son to my father? How could I be a great older brother slash substitute father for my two sisters and my younger brother? How could I be there for my mother? How could I be there for my father's business? And I just went into battle mode. And I put my armor on. And I just ran into it. And for the next two years, every day was painful. I mean, I was dealing with banks. I was dealing with the company who still had subpoenas. I was still in law school. I told my father I wanted to drop out of law school and business school. But he said, please don't. So I would basically go to law school one day a week, or maybe I'd skip it most days. And I'd go to his office every day. And my friends would joke that if my professors wanted to fail me, the law professor would have to give me a test that had four pictures and say, circle who your professor is. But I would basically take a week off. I'd read the books. And I did well. And I got my degrees. And it was just a very, very challenging time. But like I said to you before, is that you learn the most about life. And you learn the most about humanity and yourself when you're in your most challenging periods. And I'll say that that experience also changed the people I interacted with. Spending weekends with my father down in a prison in Alabama, I met the other inmates, I met their families. I spent time then trying to advise the children of other people who were going through the same experience that I'd gone through on how to navigate it correctly. And you just learn a lot about the world. And you see that in life, everything could get taken from you, your status, your money, your friends. I saw that certain people were very disloyal to my father at the time, who he thought were friends. It was only a handful. But again, I learned from those people, how can I be a true friend to people? How can I be better? And I learned a tremendous amount through that experience. You write that your father told you, about being humble, I'd love to ask you about this, that in life sometimes we get so powerful that we start to think we're the dealers of our own fate. We're not the dealers, God is the dealer. Sometimes we have to be brought back down to earth to get perspective on what is really important. What do you think he meant by that? What did you learn from that experience? The way I interpreted it at the time, and those were very, very memorable words, I was down after I picked up my father from the arraignment. I drove him down, I drove the car, and my father and I are very, very close. And he didn't say a word for the whole time. And I think he was processing, number one, what was happening to him. And I couldn't even imagine, but I actually think the bigger pain for him, because my father is such a committed person to the family, is like, did I let my family down? Did I let my kids down? And I do think he felt at that moment, like his life was over. He couldn't really see past what this challenge was going to bring, and if there would be a life for him after it. So I could see that he had a lot of fear, and he really wasn't saying much. And then I didn't know what to do. And so I just stood by him and stood close. And later that day, or the next day, he got up and started walking. He had an ankle monitor for whatever reason. The prosecutor was so aggressive, he was a flight risk, so they made him wear an ankle monitor. They were very, very aggressive and nasty. And at the time, my father was the biggest donor to Democrats. The prosecutor was a Republican. It was a very political thing. And what happened was, he was walking around the pool, and I just started walking with him. And he said to me, you know, Jared, in life, sometimes we get so powerful that we believe that we're the dealer. He says, but we're not the dealer. God's the dealer. And we have to come down to earth to understand, like you said. So what I took from that was that my father, with all of his success, had started to believe that maybe certain rules didn't apply to him. And I think that that's where he made a mistake. And I think he had a lot of regret that he made the mistake. And my father is a very humble person. He's a very moral person. For me, with my humility, my brother and I joke that we give our credit for being humble, number one, to being Mets fans, because every year you have a lot of promise, and then it never ends up paying off, although now with Steve Cohen, hopefully we're on a different trajectory. But the other thing is also our mother. Our mother really raised us to be very humble, to be – we knew we had a lot, but every Sunday morning, my mom was there clipping the coupons. The cereal we ate in our house was based on what was on sale versus what we liked. When we would have a problem with our teachers in school, and I'd say, well, the teacher doesn't like me, she'd say, well, I'm not calling them. It's your job to make the teacher like you. And so my mother gave us a lot of that. My father gave us a lot of the grounding. And I think during that time, my father was just realizing that maybe he had gotten disconnected from the grounding and the values. And again, I think he also accepted maybe he could have blamed others for acting inappropriately, but I respect the fact that he took responsibility himself and said, I can't control the actions of other people. I can't control what they do is right and wrong. I can just control my actions. And as I go on the next journeys in my life and I go to government, I go to Washington. I mean, I even think through the craziness of going from visiting my father in a prison to 10 years later, sitting in the office in the White House next to the president of the United States. And I think about that story and that it's a story that only God could write. And I really believe that you have to have a lot of faith because the lows and the highs are both so extreme and unbelievable that I feel like those low moments in some ways allowed me to keep my grounding and to understand what was truly important in life for when I ended up going through those other moments. Your father was betrayed, perhaps over money by siblings. Is there some deeper wisdom you can draw from that? Have you seen money or perhaps power cloud people's judgment? Oh, 100%. 100%. Is there some kind of optimistic thing you can take from that about human nature of how to escape that clouding of judgment when you're talking about leaders, when you're talking about government, even business? As you mentioned, there's a power dynamics at play always when you're negotiating. Is there a way to see the common humanity and not see the sort of will to power in the whole thing? Definitely. You mentioned about power, money corrupting. There's a great quote I heard a friend of mine say. It's a guy, Michael Harris, who was one of the founders of Death Row Records. And he was being interviewed recently and they asked him about what happened with Shook Night. And his line was, money just makes you more of what you already are, which I thought was a very elegant way of saying it. And I would see this time and time again in the White House where you had people who were now given a lot of responsibility and power, and it went to their head and they acted very crazily and maybe didn't act in a way that I thought was always conducive to the objective. So I think it's a very big problem that you have, whether it's something that's solvable. I think it's about howhaving the right leaders, and hopefully for the leaders, having good friends. I mean, I'm still friends with a lot of the people I interacted with when I was in government. And the number one thing I try to be to them is just a good friend. I try to be somebody who they can talk about things with. I don't go in trying to tell them what to do on different things. And I think that that's a big thing, is that people just need friends and they need conversation. And if they have that, then hopefully that allows them to keep their head in the right place. I think this is a good place to ask about one aspect of the fascinating work you've done, which is on prison reform. Can you take me through your journey of helping the bipartisan bill get passed, just working on prison reform in the White House in general, how you made that happen, how you help make that happen? Sure, so we passed a law called the First Step Act, which was the largest prison and criminal justice reform bill that's been done maybe in 30, 40, 50 years in the US. And so what it basically did was two things. Number one is it took the prison system and it took a certain class of offenders and allowed them to become eligible for earlier release if they go through the certain trainings that will allow them to have a lower probability of going back. So stepping back, you look at the prison system, you say, what's the purpose? Is it to punish? Is it to warehouse? Is it to rehabilitate? And I do think that we're a country that believes in second chances. I saw firsthand when my father was a client of the system how inefficient it was and how much better it could be. And when my father got out, we didn't run from that experience. He started hiring people from Rikers Island and different prisons into the company into a second chance program, which we're very, very proud of doing. And what we saw through our micro experience was that if you give people mentorship, if you give them job training, a lot of people leave. They have addiction issues and they can't find housing. And so people leave prison with a criminal record and they're less likely to go back and reintegrate in society without help from different institutions that can help them do that. So we modeled the reforms of what they did in Texas and Georgia and other states where they basically put a lot of job training, alcohol and addiction treatment programs in the prisons as a way to incentivize the prisoners to work on themselves while they're there in order to allow them to reenter society. It's turned out to be very successful so far. They just had a report that showed that the general population has had a 47% recidivism rate, meaning that people who leave federal prison, half of them go back and people who have now taken this program, only 12% of them go back. So number one, you're making communities safer because if people are gonna now get a job and enter society instead of committing future crimes, you're avoiding future crimes. And number two, you're giving people a second chance at life. And so that was the first part of it. The second thing we did was there was a rule passed in the 90s that basically penalized crack cocaine at 100 times the penalty of what regular cocaine was. And I think a lot of the motivations, what people say in retrospect was that crack was more of a black drug and cocaine was more of a white drug. And so there was a really racial disparity in terms of what the application of these sentences were. So they then revised that to make it 18 to one. And what we did in this bill is we allowed it to go retroactive to allow people who were in prison with sentences under what we thought was the racist law to be able to make an application to a judge in order to be dismissed. And it was based on good behavior, being rehabilitated and the fact that they would have a low probability of offending in the future. And so that was really the meat of it. And there was a couple other things in there we did as well, which were also quite good. So we did it, worked very closely with the Democrats, Republicans to do it. At first, President Trump was a little bit skeptical of it because he's a big, strong law and order supporter, but he made me work very hard to put together a coalition of Republicans and Democrats and law enforcement. We had the support from the policemen, we had the support from the ACLU, and ultimately we were able to get it together. And it was an amazing thing. We ended up getting 87 votes in the Senate. This happened for me at a time while the Russia investigation stuff was still happening. A new chief of staff came in, John Kelly, he basically marginalized me and the operations. So I had kind of less day-to-day responsibilities in the White House. And so for me, this effort became one of my full-time efforts along with negotiating the Mexico trade deal and along with the Middle East efforts. And the reason why that was great was because it didn't have a lot of support from the Republican caucus originally, and people thought there was no way it would happen. So I really was able to be the chief executive, the middle executive, the low executive, the intern. And through that process, I really got an education on how Congress works, on how to pass legislation. I was negotiating texts, I was negotiating back and forth, and I built a lot of trust. Again, I would deal with whether it's Hakeem Jeffries or Cedric Richmond, we built a lot of trust. We'd speak three times a day. These guys had my back, the ACLU. Again, I never thought they were suing our administration every day or every other day on something, but for whatever reason, we built trust and we were able to work together. And then also with the real conservative groups, because there was a lot, a big part of the conservative base that felt like we should be giving people a second chance. And in addition to that, this will keep our country safer and it will reduce the cost of what we spend on prisons. And so it was a great effort and I was very, very proud that we were able to get it done under President Trump. How'd you convince the Republicans? So they were skeptical at first. Are we talking about like just phone conversations, going out to lunch, just back to the emojis or what? Hand-to-hand combat, meetings. The cool thing about this is, so everyone always says, I always get frustrated when I hear a lawmaker say, oh, the Senate's not what it used to be or Congress isn't what it used to be. Things are broken today. I don't think that's true. I think going through the process, I think that our founders were totally genius in the way that they designed our system of government. And what I saw is you just have to work it. So everyone knows the power of their vote. Some would give it to me easily. Some wouldn't give it to me easily. Some would trade it for other things. Some would withhold it because they were pissed about other things. And it was just hand-to-hand combat. So it was just making calls, using the phone, go and walk in the halls, going to lunches, hosting dinners at my house. It was just, it was a nonstop lobbying effort. And by the way, it was also adjudicating issues and making people feel like they were heard, hearing their issues, and then trying to find solutions that you don't put something in that then tips off where you lose a whole coalition. So it was really a balancing act, but it was an amazing thing. And I worked very closely on that with Van Jones and Jessica Jackson, who also gave me a lot of help on the left. And it was an amazing thing. Had a great team too. So you mentioned the importance of trust at the very beginning of the conversation. From the outsider perspective, just maybe a dark question, which is like how much trust is there in Washington? How much, the flip side of that, how much backstabbing is there? Can you form like long-term relationships with people on a basic human level where you know you're not going to be betrayed, screwed over, manipulated for, again, going back to the old money and power? The answer is yes, and the answer is no. So I made some incredible friends, lifelong friends, through my time in Washington. But the way I think about it from politics, and I think in geopolitics as well, is I would say that politicians really don't have friends. Politicians have interests. And as long as you kind of follow that rule, you should be able to know how to rate where your relationship with a given person falls in the spectrum. But I do think I was the exception. I did make some tremendous friends. And again, I'd go back to what I said about negotiation, where when you're in a situation where there's really nothing in it for any of you personally, but you're in a foxhole together, and nobody in Washington could get anything done by themselves. So you have people coming from all different backgrounds, all different experiences, all different geographies, coming together, agreeing on an objective, creating a plan, and then every day rowing together in order to get it done. It's a beautiful thing. And you really learn what people are about. And so when you go through an experience like that, you learn who's in it for themselves, you learn who's in it for the cause. And for every thing you read about in the press of a fight I had with somebody because we were at odds, I have about 100 people who have become lifelong friends because I respect the way that when we were under fire together, they got better, they were competent, and they were there to serve for the right reason. And so I guess the answer is yes, it is possible. You have to be careful because there are a lot of mercurial people there. I always say the politicians are like gladiators. I didn't have as much respect for politicians till I got there. But if you think about it, everyone who's got a congressional seat or a Senate seat, there's 25 people back at home who want their job, who think they're smarter than them, who are trying to backstab them. And so I always say that the political dynamic, it's like in the private sector, you're standing on flat ground. You choose which fights you take on, when you take them on, how you fight them. In politics, it's like you're standing on a ball. And what you have to realize is that there's maybe like 10 things that you have to do, but there's a potential cost to taking on each one that might destabilize you. You fall off the ball and then you lose your opportunity to pursue those. You have to always be kind of marking everything to market and going through your calculations to make sure you can accomplish what you want to without falling off the ball and losing your opportunity to make a difference. I guess people like power. And I just feel like to be a good politician, you should be willing, like good meaning good for humanity, be willing to let go of power. You know, try to do the right thing. If there's somebody back home that does manipulative stuff, screws you over and takes power from you, it's okay.