Right, and now we're great allies with Germany, who basically was our great enemy in World War II. We're great allies with Japan, who was our great enemy in World War II. So it goes back to the notion we discussed earlier of you shouldn't condemn tomorrow to be like yesterday if you're unhappy with yesterday. So number one is I would definitely ask him about that. The phone call that you mentioned was after we did a pretty intense negotiation to create the largest oil cut in the history of oil production. So during COVID, demand just shut off like crazy, and it was stopping very quickly. Saudi and Russia at that time were having a conflict. They created this thing called OPEC+, which goes back, again, history between the two countries where they had conflicts, and then all of a sudden, they were working together to try to stabilize the oil markets. But they couldn't agree on the cuts, so Saudi actually increased production. So you had two things hitting at once, where Saudi and Russia were both increasing production and demand was dropping. So you were headed for a real crisis, and I was starting to get calls from a lot of the oil industry executives here in America saying, you don't understand, we can't just flip a switch and turn off our oil wells. We're running out of storage here. And I said, look, President Trump likes low oil prices, so he's not upset about what's happening. You have to call him, and if he gives me permission or the instruction, then I can try to intervene. But right now, he's not inclined to intervene. After a little bit, he said, you know what? It's time, get involved, go do it. It was right over Passover. This was during COVID. I spent three days nonstop on the phone with Kirill Dmitriev from Russia and with MBS directly, and I was dealing with Dan Burlett, who was our energy minister, going back and forth. And it was like, it was crazy. I mean, it was just one of the craziest negotiations. We ended up agreeing on the largest oil cut in the history of the world. But the story you went to before, which was pretty funny, was finally make the deal, and we set up a call between King Salman, Vladimir Putin, and President Trump to announce the deal. I'm like, oh, this is great. So President Trump gets on us, congratulations, we have a deal. And then King Salman says, we don't have a deal. Mexico hasn't agreed to their cuts. And he's saying, what do you mean? And so they were part of the OPEC Plus. And so I get a note saying, you gotta go call Mexico. So I'm calling Mexico, and we're dealing. They're saying, we're not doing any cuts. So why? I said, we're hedged at $55. He said, why didn't you tell us that at the beginning? So I'm telling the Saudis. So we were working through this whole thing. So meanwhile, we were trying to find the compromise with Mexico. I set up a call with Trump and Putin so they can kind of talk this through. And he was always trying to play the game of how do we get Russia away from China? He always thought that that was not the right strategic framework for US interests. And again, we had no problems with them during that time. What I would say is that for Zelensky and Putin, any conversation with both of them is about understanding their perspective. I think with Putin, he's a student of history from the things that I saw with him. If you look at Russia over the last 500 years, I think they were attacked by the Polish in early 1600. I think they were attacked by the Swedes in the 1700s. I think they were attacked by Napoleon in the 1800s. And then in the 1900s, they were attacked by Germany twice. And so from his perspective, there is, in the early days of Russia, they were attacked by the Mongols. They were very vulnerable. And a lot of the geography of Russia today is really designed for defensive purposes so that they have natural barriers that makes them easier to defend. And Russia's a massive landmass. It's twice the size of America. They have 11 time zones in the country. And so I do think that for Vladimir Putin, his biggest concern is how do we create a security paradigm in the West of his country that won't be a creep? And I think that there's like two different parts of the mindset. The people who are most cynical of Putin will say, well, he's just trying to recreate the USSR. He's being expansionist. And the people who wanna be sympathetic to him will say, well, if you think about it, the Russian perception of the NATO arrangement was that they wouldn't be expanding westward. Over the last years, they've included all these countries that they said they promised they wouldn't include, who knows what the promises were or weren't. But what I do know from his perspective is allowing Ukraine into NATO was always a red line. And that's why we never offered it. We never provoked it. We never brought it up. We're gonna arm them. And we basically said, just calm down. We don't want any conflicts there. We have bigger issues and bigger opportunities to work from. So I do think you have to think through what's a paradigm that he can accept. And I do think that he'll give the justification for why he's done what he's done. And then I think the framework for a solution is about how do we move both parties forward? Tough job. I hope you get the opportunity to do it because I think it's a conversation that will only help the world hopefully find a pathway forward. And I should mention, because you mentioned geography, one of the many books you've recommended to me that gives a very interesting perspective on history is called Prisoners of Geography by Tim Marshall. And it has a very interesting perspective on the geopolitical conflicts and perspectives.of Russia from a geography perspective, and also for China in the second chapter. And there's a lot of understanding of why the expansion of NATO is such a concern for Russia. Because geography still, even in the 21st century, less and less so because of technology and so on, but it still plays a major role in conflicts between nations, rivers, mountains. And understanding the DNA of countries. It was one of the most phenomenal books, and I just found it on Amazon randomly, but I loved every minute of it. The chapter on America is also incredible, going through the evolution of how we became the country we are, the different acquisitions, the different changes, why we have all these geographic advantages. And it's an unbelievable book for anyone who's interested in geopolitics. So I have to ask on several aspects of China. First on the president, the meeting. You helped set up a first call and first meeting between Donald Trump and Xi Jinping. Can you tell the story of that? Because that's also interesting. Again, that first phone call, the reaching out, the forming the human connection, which ultimately leads to the connection between nations and the possibility of collaboration. So during the transition, President Trump took a call from the head of Taiwan, and that sent the Chinese into a real tailspin. And he didn't do it, I think, to be provocative to them as much as just as a businessman, he felt you answer your call. Somebody wants to speak to you, you speak to him like you, you wanna have conversations, hear their point of view. But it was taken as a very big insult, and it was against tradition and norm. And so that was something that set us off in a wrong direction. My view at the time was that we are entering a G2 world, whether people want to admit it or not. And that a lot of these countries in what I call the middle market countries were basically playing this when China was being aggressive with their one belt, one road, they were basically playing US and China against each other. And I thought that by the two leaders coming together, there were some things they wouldn't agree on, but there was a lot that they probably could agree on, which could lead to resolutions to a lot of issues in the world. That was like my most optimistic view. My most more pragmatic view was that President Trump had very big issues on trade that he wanted to get to with China. He felt like China, their trade practices were unfair. They weren't following all the global rules of trade. He was a little bit nervous that they would be provocative with Taiwan. And I felt like the two of them getting together would be the best way to try and resolve that. So the Chinese are very proud, and a lot of it is about face. And so in order to negotiate for that first call, we basically agreed on what would happen in the call. So not let's just have a call, say hi, nice to meet you, was a question of President Trump basically agreed that he would acknowledge the one-China policy, which he didn't see as a big concession because you could always unacknowledge it the next day. So yeah, I'll acknowledge it, and then we'll go. And in exchange, President Xi was gonna come over to the US for a visit so they could sit together. And they wanted to do it outside the White House, and so we agreed on Mar-a-Lago, which I also thought was good because President Trump always felt much more comfortable when he was hosting at his properties, and he just felt at home. And so he liked having people as his guests, and he loved it. He always felt really relaxed, and it was great. So that was really what we did. Then the Chinese come over, very much anticipated visit, and it was incredible. So they were supposed to sit together for 15 minutes, and they sat about an hour and a half together. And during that meeting, President Trump basically said, look, let's just set some ground rules to this relationship. Like, let's just not talk about Taiwan. Like, you know, just don't do anything I don't want on the table. If it does, I'm gonna have to do harsh things. I just don't want this to be a problem for four years. We got bigger issues. They basically just, again, you notice four years of Trump administration, no Taiwan talk whatsoever. It was a non-issue. Started talking about the trade issues. They spent a lot of time on North Korea. President Trump was trying to get the perspective from President Xi about North Korea, because that was, again, considered from Obama the biggest national security issue that we faced at the time. And they just had a good feeling for each other. It also helped that, you know, my wife and I, we actually had a Chinese nanny and teacher in our house, and our kids learned fluent Mandarin. And our daughter actually opened when President Xi and President Trump were together with Melania and with Madame Peng, is my daughter actually sang them a couple of Chinese songs. And I thought that was a nice way to show, you know, we're tough, but we respect your culture. Because the Chinese have an incredible culture that goes back thousands of years. They're very proud in how they do it. And I think that sign of respect also set things off in a very warm way for President Trump to say, my granddaughter speaks Chinese and we're showing you the respect, which I think is very important. And he did have respect for them. The next part about the visit, I mean, obviously we had a lot of discussions on trade, but the part that was probably most impactful to me was President Xi basically did an hour monologue at lunch where he just went through Chinese history from his perspective. And he talked about, with particular emphasis on kind of the treaty of unequals and then the hundred years of humiliation. And then you go through from Mao all the way to today and you had, you know, China coming back and rising. And you could tell that he was learned the lessons from the past and was very committed to kind of seeing China go through. So that was a different time, right? So China today is different than it was in 2017. In 2017, I remember President Xi was at Davos and he was vetted by all the top business people in the world as the, you know, Donald Trump was the threat to the global world order. President Xi was the champion of free trade and the biggest champion of environmentalism and fighting for climate change. And what occurred was President Trump came in and basically said, like, I think China has not been following the rules-based order. Took very, very drastic approach with tariffs. Every time he would do the tariffs again, you know, I had Mnuchin, our treasury sector, come to Ivanka's house. If he does this, this is gonna crash the whole economy. And by the way, he believed it. I mean, these were things that people were telling him would be very tough to do. You know, President Trump had a gentleman named Ambassador Lighthizer, Robert Lighthizer. He was really the tip of the spear on all of our trade negotiations. He worked very well with Secretary Mnuchin. And they ended up, we ended up increasing tariffs to numbers that hadn't even been thought could happen. So we did the first round of tariffs. Then, you know, the Chinese came back and retaliated very surgically, trying to hit us in all the areas that politically would have been difficult. And what Trump did was instead of backing down, he took some of the revenue from the tariffs, gave it to the farmers and said, I know that this is gonna hurt your business, but I'm gonna make sure you guys are made whole. And then he doubled down and basically went back at the Chinese with even more tariffs. So what we watched over a year and a half was probably the biggest hand of poker that was ever played. And it was an amazing experience to be a part of it. And the role I played was really working for Secretary Mnuchin and Ambassador Lighthizer as a back channel with the Chinese to make sure we can just deescalate things and get to solutions in the best way possible. And so, anyway, it was a fascinating time. But if you think about the global awareness of the bad practices that China was putting in place today versus what they were in 2016, I think one of President Trump's most successful policies was shifting the way the entire world understood the threat of China and then putting in place the beginning of a regime to try and rebalance the world so that we could have more economic parity. So you mentioned to me the book, The 100-Year Marathon by Michael Pillsbury when we discussed China. And I've got a chance to read parts of it. And I'd highly recommend people read it because there's a few, it's definitely an eye-opening perspective. I don't know if I agree with all of it. I don't know if you agree with all of it, but it certainly opens, it gives a very intense perspective on China. And you said it was instructive to how you thought, how Donald Trump thought about China. Can you describe the main thesis of the book and maybe with a hopeful view, how it's possible to have a trajectory of these two superpowers working together in the 21st century versus fighting against each other? Perfect. So it's a very, very big book. And I think it's a book definitely worth reading. Michael is tremendous. He speaks fluent Mandarin. So he spent a lot of time researching to do the book. So I highly recommend it to everyone. And it was considered more of a fringe perspective in 2016, but it really, I think, came to represent the underpinning of what the collective thought was of the Trump administration. And maybe you could argue that it was even more cynical. The whole thesis of the book was that China from 1949 to 2049 was working to reclaim their position as the global leader, right? So you had the Chinese empire. One of the things, I don't know if it's from this book or a different book that I read that spoke about how in the late 1700s, basically the emperor of China was offered some of the industrial capability from England, which was basically now becoming the industrial revolution. And basically, no, we're fine. We're the great Chinese empire. We don't need any of these things. We're better than that. And by rejecting that, the rest of the world got stronger. China remained weaker. Then you had the opium wars. The Chinese had big opium problems through all the trade back and forth. And then China from about 1840 to the 1940, at 100 years, where they really, after all these treaties, were really a second-class country. And so then you have the People's Revolution that comes in. And he talks about how China, very strategically, as a very, very poor country, would fight their way back and build brick by brick. And he proffers in the book that Nixon didn't go to China and open China. It was China that actually went to Nixon and was able to use Nixon in order to open up. And then they talk about how under Carter, they were able to get the US to contribute to a lot of their, they were able to kind of start borrowing the US know-how from our university systems, from our medical, from our science, from our research. And the whole notion that was the conventional thinking of American leaders was that the more we help China advance, the more they would become a free-market economy. And it was a great market. The only difference was, was that they weren't allowing us access. They were making our companies basically give them all of their technical knowledge. They were stealing our intellectual property. They were doing espionage to steal a lot of the patents. They were just ignoring our patents and they weren't following any of the rules of international trade. Then they started becoming the world's manufacturing hub. They basically became the world's factory. And then they started this whole initiative called the Belt and Road Initiative in order to start locking in their lines of trades. They were buying up all the ports everywhere. They were building railways, thinking how do we lock in our distribution so that we can maintain the dominance as the world's global factory. And so it was a brilliant long-term plan that they were doing. And by raising awareness, by putting the tariffs, Trump slowed them down a lot. The real question is, is if they actually did achieve this full objective of becoming the world dominant country, what they would have done with it, whether they would have been nefarious or not. I think from my perspective, even with some of the divisions and issues we have now in America, I still would rather an American-led world order than a Chinese-led world order. But the notion was is that they were playing a very zero-sum game and really going to be the dominant leader in this new world order. So that really framed the perspective. And it wasn't necessarily... People ask me, and the Chinese were always fearing, is Trump trying to stop our rise, right? And you have a great book also by Graham Allison that he writes about, are we destined for war between US and China? And he goes through different historical times where you have a power and a rising superpower. I think more than half the time it ends up leading to war. So the question is, what's gonna happen here? And I do think that Trump's perspective, and this is my interpretation, because everything was always tactical day-to-day, and he was unpredictable to the Chinese, which they couldn't deal with, and he was unpredictable even to his team sometimes because he was playing it day-by-day and issue-by-issue and always changing and adjusting, which is how an entrepreneur thinks. He respected the job they did by building their country. They moved 300 million people out of poverty into the middle class. They did it at the expense of a lot of other countries throughout the world, especially America. But Trump says, look, stupid politicians made deals. I respect China for doing what they did. But what I wanna do is I wanna change the paradigm so that for the next 20 years, we can maintain our advantage over them. We can maintain our competitive dynamic. And his general view was that America is the best private sector in the world. We have a lot of the best minds in the world. And if we can just have a level playing field with set rules, then America should be able to outperform. And so that's really what we were trying to do. We were trying to kind of get rid of some of their state subsidies, get rid of, make them follow some of these international rules of trade, and not allowing them to do predatory investments that then undercut different industries that we had so that they can have global market dominance or monopolies on different industries and then have pricing power, but also geopolitical power. So like one of the examples that people talk about now is China for the last 20 years was very advanced on seeing this electrification trend. They went, they subsidized solar panels. A lot of the American solar panel players were put out of business. So now I think it's like 90 plus percent of solar panels in the world are manufactured in China. Then all the rare earths that you need in order to make these solar panels and to make these electric vehicles, China's bought up most of them and a lot of the refining capacities in China. So thinking through strategically, how do we create an even playing field so that we're not at the mercy of them and how you can have a rules-based world order, that was really kind of the thought of what we were trying to work towards. So there's this SNL skit where Jimmy Fallon plays you and you're walking into the Oval Office looking cool, wearing shades and a bulletproof vest to the song Unbelievable by EMF. I don't know if you've seen it, but it's pretty epic. And then Trump says that you've traveled the world representing the administration, but no one has ever heard you speak. So there's a lot of questions I can ask about that clip, but one of them is can you introspect why you choose this low-key approach of kind of operating behind the scenes and not speaking much to the public, at least at the time? You've spoken a little bit more. And today you've spoken for a really long time, which I deeply appreciate. No, it's been a pleasure to do this. And thank you for the opportunity to talk about these things. And so that was a really funny skit.