People who are trying to solve those problems in that context often were looking more to use those past grievances as a justification for their power and for the bad behavior that they were looking to perpetuate. So managing, as we have talked about extensively, managing the power dynamics of the region and providing a plan. This is something you did with the economic plan titled Peace to Prosperity, a Vision to Improve the Lives of the Palestinian and Israeli People. Can you, first of all, describe what's in the plan? Sure. So this was something I took on. I was working on the political framework between the Israelis and the Palestinians and trying to understand what were the issues. And the issues were not very many. It basically was you had a land dispute, so you had to figure out where do you put borders ultimately. You had a security paradigm, which I was much more favorable to Israel's perspective on. And obviously the events of the past 48 hours have fully justified that bias. And then in addition to that, you had to deal with the religious sites. But I felt operationally that wasn't actually as complicated as people made it because you wanted to just leave it open for everybody. Then I went through and I felt that the Palestinian leadership was fairly disincentivized to make a deal because there was just this paradigm where they had billions of dollars coming in from the international community. And I think that they feared that if they made a deal, they would lose their relevancy internationally and the money would stop flowing into the country. So what I tried to do is to say, my approach when I would get into a hard problem, say, how do I understand all the different escape hatches? How do I try to eliminate them? And then build a golden bridge that becomes really the only, but also the most desirable pathway for the decision-makers to walk through. And it wasn't always hard. And sometimes you have to go and hold their hand or you try to pick them up and walk them across. But a lot of these leaders are very reluctant to change. And the dynamics of the Palestinians also were such that I think they were fairly stuck where they were. So we developed a business plan for Gaza, the West Bank. We threw in some improvements for Jordan and Egypt as well. I based it off of the vision 2030 that they did in Saudi Arabia, which I thought was a visionary document. I went back through this process and I studied basically every economic project in the post-World War II period. So we looked at what they did in South Korea, why it was successful with some strong industrial planning. We looked at Japan, we looked at Singapore, we looked at Poland, why it was successful. We spent a lot of time on the Ukraine plan for the country and why it wasn't successful. And that was mostly because of governance and corruption, which actually resembles a lot of what's gone wrong with the Palestinians where there's no property rights, there's no rule of law. And what we did is we built a plan to show it's not that hard, right? In the sense that between the West Bank and Gaza, you had 5 million people. And we put together a plan, I think it was about $27 billion. We got together a conference, I had the head of AT&T, we had Steve Schwarzman from Blackstone came, which was very gracious of them. We had all the leading Arabic businessmen, the leading builders, leading developers. And the general consensus of that conference was that this is very doable. We think that for Gaza in particular, it would cost maybe $7 to $8 billion to rebuild the entire place. We felt we could reduce the poverty rate in half, we can create over a million jobs there. The only thing that people said was holding it back wasn't Israel. What was holding it back was governance. And people wouldn't have confidence investing there with the rule that Hamas was perpetuating. So I encourage people actually to look at the plan. It was very thoughtful. It's 181 pages. We went project by project. Each project is costed out. It's a real plan that could be implemented, but you need the right governance. And all of the different Arabic countries are willing to fund it. The international community is willing to fund it because they've just been throwing so much money at the Palestinians for years that's never been outcomes-based or conditions-based. It's just been entitlement money. And unfortunately, it hasn't really achieved any outcomes that have been successful. So it's a great business plan. It just shows too, rebuilding Gaza could be easy. But like I said, the problem that's held the Palestinian people back and that's made their lives terrible in Gaza has not been Israel. It's really been Hamas's leadership or lack of leadership and their desire to focus on trying to kill Israelis and start war with Israel over improving the lives of the Palestinian people. And the current approach of Hamas, the more violence they perpetrate, the more they can hold on to power versus improving the lives of people. So they, as you said, maybe you can comment on, they do not propose an economics plan. I mean, Hamas has been running it now for 16 years and they don't have a lot to show for it. And our posture with them was basically a very simple deal. And if you think about what's the end state in Gaza, it's actually not that complicated. There's no territorial disputes, right? The border is the border. There's no religious issues there as well. You're not dealing with Jerusalem. You're basically just dealing with the fact that, you know, Israel wants to make sure that there's no threat from Gaza. So it's a demilitarization or some kind of security guarantee from a credible source where Israel doesn't feel like Gaza can be used to stage attacks into Israel or to fire rockets into Israel. And by the way, these are things I was saying, you know, three, four years ago, that that was the objective. And that was really the fear. Now that's been proven, you know, unfortunately, the fear has manifested. And in exchange, you can rebuild the place and you can give the people a much better life. But Hamas has not shown a desire for that or a capability for that. And I don't think there's enough trust to allow them to do that, which is why, you know, under the current circumstances, if you do want to have peace there, Hamas has to be either eliminated or severely degraded in terms of their military capabilities. I would love to ask you about leadership, especially on the side of the United States. What has the current administration, the Biden administration done different than the Trump administration, as you understand, that may have contributed to the events we saw this week? So all I can talk about are where we left them, right? We left them a place where they had tremendous momentum in the Middle East. I met with them during the transition and said, you know, we even got the Qatar-Saudi conflict done, which was a big — no peace between Israel and Saudi would have been possible without that. So we even got that done in our lame duck period. And they came in and they said, look, we want to focus on the three C's, which is COVID, climate change, and China. And I said, that's great. But, you know, the Middle East, we have an amazing place right now. It's stable. There's momentum. Iran is basically broke. We put such crippling sanctions on Iran that they went from about, I think it was 2.6 million barrels a day of oil they were selling to about 100,000 under Trump. So their foreign currency reserves were basically depleted and they were broke. Same with the Palestinians. We stopped the funding to UNRWA, the UN agency, which is totally corrupt. It's, you know, we've put $10 billion in there over time. I did a poll in the Middle East, in Gaza to say, okay, we've invested $10 billion here as a country. Are we popular? Right? The U.S. had a 7% approval rating. USAID had a 70% approval rating, but it just felt like a waste of our taxpayer dollars. And again, we want to make it conditions-based. The Biden administration came in. Number one, they started insulting, you know, Saudi and Russia. Oil prices went up. At the same time, what they did was they stopped domestic production of oil. They disincentivized a lot of oil and shale production with regulations. They stopped pipelines. Oil prices went up. They stopped enforcing the sanctions against Iran, probably to get the oil prices lower, to make up for what they were doing. They ran to Iran to try to make a deal. They started funding the Palestinians again right away. And I even said, you know, if you're going to fund them, if that's your policy, I respect that. Again, elections have consequences, and you can take a different policy. But what I would recommend is get some conditions. Make them do some reforms. Make them give property rights to people. Make them, you know, do real economic investments for people. But they just went right away. So they were funding the Palestinians, not enforcing the sanctions, and then overall just projecting a lot of weakness in the region. So one of the most embarrassing examples is what happened in the United Arab Emirates. Again, an amazing, probably one of America's best allies over the last, you know, 20, 30 years. They fought with us in Afghanistan. They were the first Muslim country to stand up and do that after 9-11 because they didn't want it to be a war of the West against the Muslim religion. So they joined the fight because they saw it as a fight between right and wrong. They have rockets shot into their country from the Houthis, and they basically don't get a call from the U.S. for 17 days. They need their equipment that they buy from the U.S., which creates jobs in the U.S. They need it restocked. We don't call. So they've severely degraded the trust that we had to rebuild with our allies. I think they've been working now to get it back. They, after two years, started working with Saudi and Israel, which I think was good. I think that they realized after a stint that maybe the process that President Trump had created in the region was the right policy. And keep in mind, you know, President Trump's policy that I was working on was very strongly criticized during the first three years before we were able to achieve the results because it was departure from the failed policies of the past. So first there was a return to those policies, appease Iran, let's criticize Saudi Arabia. Then they started embracing and working on the Israel-Saudi deal, which was really exciting. I think we were all very excited about it. But they did it in public, and I think that that also was something. Again, I didn't have access to their intelligence, so I assumed that by doing it so publicly, they thought that they'd either had a deal with Iran because they were letting them get all this revenue or Iran wouldn't be a problem. But one of the reasons with the Abraham Accords, we kept it so quiet during the whole time was because we always felt like the troublemakers in the region, particularly Iran, who we thought would be disadvantaged by having UAE, Saudi, Israel all together. Israel's a nuclear power. You have, you know, other strong economies. Iran seeks instability. They seek looking to create division in the region. And if you can create that economic sphere where you have security from Haifa to Muscat, from Israel to Oman all the way through with Saudi, Jordan, UAE, Qatar, Egypt, that's an incredibly powerful block. If you can make it secure and then get economic integration, that really could be a Middle East that thrives. So Iran, obviously, wanted nothing to do with that, and that's why they've been working to disrupt. So I think the administration has – they took an incredibly stable situation with momentum. I think they underestimated the way that Iran would approach the region to undermine. I think they gave way too much rope to Iran. And I think that they didn't seize when they had an opportunity of strength with the Palestinians to try to drive to a conclusion that I believe could have prevented us being where we are today. Not to mention that, you know, even just three weeks ago, I mean, it's a bad look that they just, you know, basically gave six billion dollars to Iran in exchange for hostages. And then Iran's basically funding these terror attacks or killing American citizens in Israel. And it's just – it's a heartbreaking situation. Again, totally avoidable and one that I think has been very badly mismanaged to date. If Trump was currently president and you were still working with him on this part of the world, what actions would you take? What conversations would you have? What ideas would you be working with in order to unite the various allies that you mentioned in the Middle East over this tragedy? And not let it be a thing that divides the Middle East, but make it a thing that catalyzes progress towards peace, further progress towards peace. So I want to say one thing, Lex. I have a lot of friends who are fans of Trump, who are not fans of Trump. But one thing I want to say with absolute certainty is that if President Trump was in office, this never would have happened. And when President Trump was in office, anyone who supports Israel or who wants to see, you know, Jewish people not be innocently slaughtered, he would never have allowed that to happen. It did not happen when he was in power. And I hope people recognize that as something that's very, very true. How I would play the ball where it lies right now, keep in mind, we transferred the ball, it was on the green. Now it's almost like it's gone back, you know, 150 yards and it's in a sand trap. I think the way that I would play the ball right now is, number one, is you have to show strength. I actually think President Biden's words were the right words. I see that they're moving aircraft carriers to the region. Again, the purpose of having a strong military, I believe, obviously, you know, if you get into a war, you want to win the war. But the purpose of a very strong military primarily is to avoid a war. I don't know what kind of credibility the Biden administration has to show the strength. But right now you have to support Israel completely. You have to really let people in the region know that there'll be consequences if they try to escalate. Again, we saw a little bit of rocket skirmish from Lebanon, from Hezbollah. But again, this is the type of thing that they have to know there'll be severe consequences if they make this a multi-party fight. And I think sending a strong message to Iran, I think that they have to see some consequences from this and know that they're not going to be allowed to have a free reign to cause instability and that, you know, Iran doesn't usually fight face-to-face. They usually do it through proxies. But let's just all be honest about where this is coming from and let them know that there will be a consequence if they instigate these actions. And again, at least with the Biden administration, they've had contact with Iran. They've been talking with Iran, but they've allowed Iran. I mean, again, the number I saw last year, I think under Trump, the number was maybe like $4 or $5 billion of oil revenue. And in total, I think last year, it was something like $45 billion in revenue. This year, I think there'll be even more. That's a combination of them driving up oil prices, but also allowing much more sales. You would think that they would find a way to get them to behave and allow them to have this happen. Or if that's not the case, then be tough. Go back to being tough. That's what you have to do. Building off of Abraham Accords, as you mentioned, Israel-Saudi normalization, there's been a lot of promising progress towards this. What does it take to not allow this tragedy damage the progress towards Israel-Saudi normalization? I think right now, it's probably not the best to think about that. I think that we want to think about that after whatever is going to happen is going to happen now. I think right now, the number one priority for Israel has to be to fully regain security in the country. And then, number two, is to figure out how you can, like I said, eliminate or degrade the Hamas capability or other Iranian threats to make sure that you have your security apparatus.think that the Israeli leadership right now should proceed with that and I don't think that they should be thinking about normalization with Saudi at this moment. My instinct, and I've been watching this Israeli-Saudi normalization play out, obviously just speaking with people and seeing what I've been reading and watching with great excitement, I think it would be a game changer for the region. I think it's one of Iran's worst nightmares to have Israel and Saudi interlink together. I think it'd be great for the Saudi people from a security perspective. What they're discussing with America would be very strong. The ability to get different elements across would be incredible. So what I would say with it is that the industrial logic held yesterday and I think it will hold again tomorrow. So I always expect countries to act in their interests. I think that the deal that's on the table right now between Saudi, Israel, and America is in Saudi's interests, it's in America's interests, and it's in Israel's interests. What's going to happen now, though, is the political dynamics are going to shift. And I think that as we've seen with political dynamics, they come and go. I think let's get through this moment and then I hope at the right time that those talks will be able to resume and conclude in an appropriate way. It's funny, Lex, when I was working on the US-Mexico agreement for the trade, every day there'd be a tweet that would go out or there would be an issue. I mean, people forget how intense it was between America and Mexico. And I would speak to my counterpart in Mexico after a rough day and we were working on something, we were making progress, it'd get blown up. And I'd speak to him and say, you know what, look, they're not moving America, they're not moving Mexico, let's just, you know, let's stop for today, let's pick up tomorrow and let's find a new way to bring this forward. So I would just encourage everyone working on that not to give up, to keep working hard at it and to find a way. But like I said, I would take a little bit of a pause for the time being, let's let the current situation play out, and then hopefully there'll be a way for it to move forward. I just hope there's still people on the US side picking up the phone and calling UAE, Saudi Arabia, just as human beings, as friends, as allies, and just keeping that channel communication going. Because I, maybe you can correct me, but I just feel like there's just simple human dynamics that play out here, that divisions can form and just run away from you over simple misunderstandings, over just the inability to see a tragedy from the same perspective, because of conversations that could have happened but didn't happen. I think there'll definitely be communication, but, you know, words on phone calls is only worth so much. It's really, you know, trust between people and power. And obviously, when you're in a position of power, you represent your country and your country's interests, but the ability to have trusting relationships where people feel like they're okay taking, you know, more risks to help each other, that's actually what's most important. So communication, I hope for, but, you know, deepening and trusting relationships, that's what I believe makes progress and keeps people safe. And we talk quite extensively about the value of trust and negotiation and just working with leaders, which I think is a fascinating conversation. And you've taught me a lot about that. Let me ask you about the end here. What are the various trajectories this work can take, in your view? What are some of the end states, as you've said, which are desirable and are achievable? I mentioned this earlier, but whenever I would get a problem set in government, I'd always think through, from a first principles perspective, what's the logical outcome, right? And forget about all the reasons why it can't happen. That's what everyone in governments always rush to talk about. But I do think here, number one, Israel has to have a secure environment where they don't feel threatened from Gaza. And number two is the people in Gaza need to have an environment where they feel like they can live a better life and have opportunities. So that's the end state. And so I think that the international community should come together. I do think that the people who are usually putting blame on Israel should now realize that maybe they've been a little bit harsher and that Hamas has been as big a threat, if not an even bigger threat, than Israel has been saying. And I do think that if the international community comes together and unites behind Israel and really forces Hamas and their Iranian backers to stop hostilities, to stop saber-rattling, to stop misrepresenting the history in order to justify their violent behavior, and if they say instead, we want to hold you accountable, no more money, and they all say that they're going to stand behind Israel's efforts to eliminate their national security threats, and then we will all come together and only fund again into a framework that we believe can be a long-term solution where the Palestinian people really have a chance to live a better life. That's really the best way to get there. There's tons of complicated factors, but that's the end state that the global community should be looking to come together, and it's very achievable. It's very, very achievable. So there's a, as we stand here today, there's a lot of different ways that this war can evolve. If a ground invasion happens by Israeli forces of Gaza, and if the number is correct of 100,000 Israeli soldiers, do you worry about various trajectories that can take of the consequences that might have of an unprecedented ground troop attack? So I think as a leader, you know, you can't change yesterday, but you have the ability to change tomorrow, and that's a very important fundamental.