So he studied his country and said, what's our place in the world? What are our advantages? What are our disadvantages? And then he set publicly KPIs that he wanted to hold his country to and then put in place plans and committees and really worked hard to push things in that direction, which was pretty remarkable. I think that it's something, when I saw it, I thought it was very refreshing. I said, wait, in America, why don't we all have set goals? Why don't we have KPIs? And I do think that it's something that most countries, if not all countries, should have. One of my favorite quotes was from the Alice in Wonderland, where the Cheshire Cat says, if you don't know where you're going, it doesn't matter which path you take. And so I think that that's something that really helped set them on a good path and they've been very successful with it. One of the things he told me about putting that together was he said, my father's generation, they created this country from almost nothing. They came here, they were a poor country, they were Bedouins in the desert, and then they look back and see what they've done over 50 years and they say, it's absolutely remarkable. He said, his generation, they come in and they say, we're very grateful for everything that's been done today, but we have so much opportunity that we're not taking advantage of. And so he's now empowered the next generation to be ambitious and think big and grow with it. What that means for his vision for the Middle East is that the general architecture that should exist, and now there's excitement in the discussions with Israel that have advanced, was the general view of what we thought from a Trump perspective should be the new Middle East is having an economic and security corridor all the way from Haifa to Muscat, from Oman to Israel, where basically you go through, and if you can create a security area where people can live free of fear of terrorism and of conflict, the Middle East for the last 20 years has been a sinkhole for arms, for death, for terrorism. It's been awful. It's been a big national security threat for America, a big place where our treasure is gone. We've had a lot of our young, amazing American soldiers killed in action there. And the same thing for the Arab countries as well. So if we can create a security architecture for that region, and then we can create economic integration between all of the different countries. I mean, the amount of innovation happening in Israel is unbelievable. Think of it like Silicon Valley is not connected to the rest of California. You have a very young population, a very digital savvy population. You have a lot of resources. And so if you can get that whole set, the potential for it is unbelievable. I do think that that's his ultimate vision is to become a really strong country economically, and then to become a place where you could be funding advancements in science, advancements in humanity, advancements in artificial intelligence, and think about ways to be a positive influence in the world. So a difficult question, one big source of tension between the United States and Saudi is the case of Jamal Khashoggi. I was wondering if you can comment on what MBS has said about it to you. You've spoken to him about it and what MBS has said about it publicly on 60 Minutes and after. Yeah. So what he said to me was no different than what he ultimately said on 60 Minutes, which was, you know, as somebody helping lead this country, I bear responsibility and I'm going to make sure that those who are involved are brought to justice. And I'm going to make sure that we put in place reforms to make sure things like this don't happen again. It was a horrible situation that occurred. What I saw from him after that was just a doubling and a tripling down on the positive things he was doing, figuring out ways to kind of continue to modernize his society, build opportunity in the kingdom, and to continue to be a better ally to all the different countries that wanted to be aligned with them. One thing I learned from this case is how one particular situation, a tragedy, can destroy so much progress and the possibility of progress and the possibility of connection between the bridges that are built between different nations. And how narratives around that can take off and take such a long time to repair. And you've worked with this in the Middle East with Israel and so on, how the history, the narratives, the stories, they kind of have this momentum that's so hard to break. Even when you have new leaders, new blood, new ideas that come in. And it's just sad to see that, yes, this tragedy happens, but it doesn't mean that you can't make progress. I don't know if you have lessons from that, just how much of a dramatic impact it had on creating tension between the United States and Saudi, and in general in the Middle East, that somehow Saudi's not a friend, but is against the ideals and the values of the United States. Yeah, so it definitely created massive tension and it became a very high-profile action that actually overshadowed a lot of the good work that was being done in the region and a lot of the progress we were making. But when you think about this or you think about the other issues that we've gone through today, I think the general framework that I always try to approach things with is you can't change what happened yesterday, you can only learn from it, and then you can change how you deal with tomorrow. And when I think about the people in power, what do I hope that they're spending their time focused on? Two basic things. Number one is, how do I create safety and security for my people and for the world? And then how do I give people the opportunity to live a better life? And so when things like this happen, obviously, there are certain reactions that are appropriate, but ultimately you have to think through how do you not allow the paradigm that you're creating in the world to lead to worse outcomes than would happen otherwise? And so when I would think about foreign policy in general, one of the differences between foreign policy and business is that in business, the conclusion of a problem set, you finish a deal, you either have a company or a property, or if you sell it, you have less to do and more capital, hopefully, if it's successful. In a political deal, it's always about paradigms. So the end of a problem set is always the beginning of a new paradigm. And you're always thinking through how do you create an environment that leads to, hopefully, the best amount of positive outcomes that could occur versus creating a paradigm that will lead to negative outcomes. So bad things happen a lot in the world, and you have to make sure that when those happen, people are held accountable for it, but you also don't want to make sure that in the process of making sure that there's accountability for these actions, you don't set a lot of progress that the world is making back that will lead to worse off situation for many more people. If we can go back to the incredible work with Abraham Accords in Israel and the Middle East, first, a big question about peace. Why is it so difficult to achieve peace in this part of the world between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and the other countries in the Middle East or any sort of peace-like agreements? If I had to give you the most simple answer, I would say that it's structural. And if you go back to the incentive structure of different leaders, this whole peace process between Israel and the Palestinians – and again, I've gotten criticized for saying this, but it's what I believe, so I'm going to say it – is that the incentive structure was all wrong. And when I went before the United Nations Security Council to discuss the peace plan that I proposed, which again, was more of an operational plan and it was a pragmatic plan. It was over 180 pages in detail. In politics, people don't like putting forward detail because it just gives a lot of places for you to get criticized on. Nobody actually criticized the detail of my plan. They just criticized the fact that it was coming from us and didn't want to debate the merits of the operational pieces of it. So I created a slide where I showed from the Oslo Accords till the day I was there, all the different peace discussions. I put a dove in the slide for those. And then I put a tank for every time there was a war because there was always skirmishes between Hamas and Hezbollah and the Palestinians. And then I showed two lines and they both went from the bottom of the page.age, all the way up like this. One of the lines was Israeli settlements. So every time a negotiation failed, Israel was able to get more land. And then the other one was money to the Palestinians. And I said, every time a negotiation failed, the Palestinians would get more money. The problem with that money though, was that it wasn't going to the people. Some of it would make its way down, but most of it was going to the politicians. You had leadership of the Palestinians who was basically, I think at that point it was in like the 16th year of a four-year term. So it wasn't democratically elected. And a lot of what I tried to show was that there was no rule of law, there was no judicial system, there were no property rights, and there was no opportunity or hope for the people to live a better life. And so all of the envoys to date were basically trained to go and do the same things. And again, I got massively criticized by all the previous envoys for not doing it the same way they did, but I thought the problem structurally just didn't make sense. And so I felt like the incentive structure was all wrong and I took a different approach. And so what's the different approach? I started writing down a document. These are the 11 issues, but there's really only three issues that matter. I said, just tell me what you think the compromise is that you think the other side could live with that you would accept. And it was very hard to get them talking about this, oh, you have to go back to 1972, you have to go back to 1982, you have to go back to 2001, you have to go to camp. And I was just like, I don't need a headache and I don't need a history lesson, just I want a very simple thing. Here today in 2017, what's the outcome that you would accept? And I was dealing with their negotiators, their back-channel secret negotiators, their double secret. And I was just like, this whole thing is like, it's a process created where nobody wants to talk about the actual solution. Coming from the business world, I said, okay, let me just write down a proposed solution that I think is fair and let me have each side react. Don't tell me about theoretical things, tell me, I want to move the line from here to here, I want to change this word. So I tried to make it much more tactical. And what I realized was the Palestinians, they'd worked so hard to get the Arab world to stay with the line of the Arab Peace Initiative. So I went back and I read the Arab Peace Initiative. It was 10 lines and it didn't have any detail. So it was a concept. And so they liked that concept because it allowed them to reject everything. They kept getting more money. I mean, Bibi Netanyahu, who runs one of the most incredible economies in the world, who runs an incredible superpower militarily for the size of their country, he would fly to Washington to meet us and he'd be taking a commercial El Al plane. Abbas, who runs a refugee organization, a refugee group that claims that they don't have a state that gets billions of dollars in aid every year from the global community, would fly in a $60 million Boeing BBJ. So the whole thing was just very corrupt and off. And I do think that that's why it... I don't think people were incentivized to solve it, to be honest. What do you think an actual plan on that part, if you can, just before we talk about Abraham Accords, if there is a peace plan that works between Israel and Palestine, what do you think it looks like? You have to separate it into two different issues. And I think that that's actually how we came to the Abraham Accords is that... I tell the story in the book and it was one of my favorite experiences during my time in diplomacy where I went to meet with Sultan Qaboos, who was the Sultan of Oman. And we fly out there because he'd had a secret meeting with Bibi. And I thought maybe he was open to normalizing with Israel. So after he meets with Bibi, he calls me and says, I want you to come see me. So I go over to see him. And again, I tell the story, it was a crazy night and all these different areas. But when I was talking to him, he basically says to me, I feel badly for the Palestinian people that they carry with them the burden of the Muslim world. And that line just stuck with me. And a couple of days later, I was thinking about it and I said, wait a minute, who elected the Palestinian people to represent the Muslim world on the Al-Aqsa mosque? And so the reason why I felt like it had never been solved was it was a riddle, A, that I believed was designed to not be solved. But B, you were conflating two separate issues. You had the issue between Israel and the Muslim world, which really was the issue of the Al-Aqsa mosque. And then you had just a territorial dispute, which throughout history, you have lots of territorial disputes and they're usually resolved in different ways. So if you go back to the Israeli-Palestinian issue, there's just a couple of components you need to solve. Number one is territorial contiguity. You need to figure out where do you draw the lines? And that's something that you can talk about what people were owed 70 years ago, but it's much more productive to say, this is what you can make work today. And that's kind of what we did. We literally spent months and months drawing a map and we put something out, probably changed a couple of lines here and there, but by and large, it was a very pragmatic solution that I think could work. And I think it could work for the safety and security of Israel, which was number one. So first issue is drawing a map. Second issue is security. And again, this is one issue we were incredibly sympathetic with Israel, which is you can't expect a prime minister of Israel to make a deal where he's going to make his people less secure than before. So we worked very closely with them on a security apparatus. We laid something out that I think would keep the whole area safer and it would make sure Israel was safe and also keep the Palestinian issue safe. So you need security. Number three was the religious sites. And that was one that was actually always made much more complicated by people, the Al-Aqsa Mosque, because you basically have Haram al-Sharif, which is a place where the mosque was built in the seventh or eighth century. But originally it was where the holy of holies were in the Beit Hamigdash for the Jewish people. So, and then compounding by the fact that you have all of the Christian holy sites in Jerusalem, it's a city that should be bringing everyone together, but in fact has become a place where you have wars and hatred and a lot of different conflicts that have arisen because of it. But what I said was, instead of fighting over concepts of sovereignty, which is interesting how I got to the notion that this wasn't really the big issue, I basically said, just operationally, why don't we just make it simple? Let everyone come and be able to worship as long as they're being able to worship peacefully. So that's really the contours of it. And what the Palestinians have done is they've kind of deflected from a lot of their own shortcomings. And a lot of the Arab leaders did that as well, kind of in the pre-Abraham Accord days by kind of allowing this issue to be so prevalent. So one thing I'll say on the Palestinians is that what we tried to do by laying out a plan was we said, okay, what are the reasons why the Palestinian people are not having the lives that they deserve? And I'll give you a couple of things. One is I studied the economies of Jordan, West Bank, Gaza, Egypt, Morocco. This was numbers from like 2019. But what was interesting was the GDP per capita of somebody living in the West Bank was actually the same as Jordan. And it was actually more than somebody living in Egypt. And the debt of GDP that the Palestinians had was like 30%, 40% compared to Egypt, which was at like 130%, and Jordan, which was at 110%, and Lebanon, which is at 200%. And so you're in a situation where a lot of this stuff didn't make sense. But if you draw lines, create institutions where Palestinian people can now feel like they have property rights and have ownership over their place and let the money flow past the leadership ranks to the people, let them have jobs, let them have opportunity, and then let all Muslims from throughout the world have access to the mosque and Israel making sure that they can control the security, which I think the Jordanians and a lot of others want Israel to have strong security control there to prevent the radicalists and the extremists from coming. You could have peace there very easily. So there's a lot of things to say here. One is just to emphasize Al-Aqsa Mosque, because this is a holy place. And this is something in our conversations and in my own travels, I've seen the importance of sort of frictionless access to those sites from the entirety of the Muslim world. And that's what Abraham, of course, took big leaps on. Okay, so we'll talk about that a little bit more. But that's kind of a religious component. That's a dignity in the religious practice and faith component. But then the other thing you mentioned so simply, which is you have money flow past the leadership ranks. How do you have money flow past the leadership ranks in Palestine? So make sure that the money that's invested in Palestine, the West Bank, gets to the people. So to date, all of the aid that's been given to the Palestinians has been an entitlement. It's not conditions-based. It's always just we give the money and there's no expectations. It's very simple. You make the aid conditions-based, you fight for transparency, you do it through institutions other than the PA, or you put reformers into the PA that will allow it to go down that way. PA being the Palestinian Authority, which is the leadership. It's not hard to do. It just takes people who actually want to do it. But I think that the mindset of the international community has not been, let's solve this problem. It's like, let's just throw a little bit of money. The money is Novocain. Let's put a little Novocain on the problem and let's not have to deal with it. But nobody's ever said, oh, let's do an accounting of the $20 billion we've given them and see how many jobs it's done and where it's gone. That just hasn't happened. Again, it's an incredibly corrupt organization. You think about the post-World War II dynamic. You had a lot of refugees. My grandparents were refugees post-World War II. Every other refugee class has been resettled and you only have one permanent refugee organization ever created. Why was this done? It was done to perpetuate the conflict so that a lot of Arab leaders could basically deflect from a lot of their shortcomings at home. I think for Israel, they view all these things as existential. They value their safety. They've been under attack for a long time. I do think having a deal where we can say, how do the Jews and the Muslims come together? I think King Abdullah from Jordan's been an incredible custodian for the mosque. I think everyone in my travels recognize that he's the right guy for that, that the King of Jordan should be the custodian of the mosque. We should have some kind of framework to make sure everyone has access. The more countries that have diplomatic relations with Israel, the more Muslims and Arabs that should be able to come and visit. By the way, the more you have these normalizations, think about what that will do to the economy of the West Bank, where they'll have great hotels, hospitality, tremendous tourism industry because of all the Christian, Muslim, and Jewish holy sites that they have there. There's a lot of potential there. We just have to get unstuck. I believe that it's so possible if the leaders want to make tomorrow better that they can. Unfortunately, the people who suffer the most are just the Palestinian people. I think that in Gaza, they're hostages to Hamas. In the West Bank, they're just held back because their leadership is afraid or too self-interested to give them the opportunity to change their paradigm and pursue the potential of what they have. By the way, it's an incredibly well-educated population. It's an incredibly capable population. They're right next to Israel, where the economy, they need everything. The potential should be incredible if you can just move some of these pieces. Again, there's still a lot of emotion and hatred you have to work through as well. I do believe that you're not going to solve that by litigating the past. You're only going to solve that by creating an exciting paradigm for the future and getting everyone to buy in and then move towards that. Maybe increase the chance of being able to establish an economy where the entrepreneurs can flourish in the West Bank and so on in Palestine once the relationship across the Arab world is normalized. One thing on that, which is very interesting, is when I got into my job in the Middle East, all the conventional thinkers said to me, the separation in the Muslim world is between the Sunnis and the Shias. That's really the big divide.