As I was traveling, I didn't think there was any divide in that regard. The divide that I saw was between leaders who wanted to give a better opportunity for their people and create economic reforms and opportunity, and leaders who wanted to use religion or fear to keep their stronghold on power. If you think about who's not creating the opportunity for their people, it's the Palestinian leadership and the Iranian leadership. All the other Arab countries were focused on, how do we give opportunity for our people to live a better life? There is a big foundation on which that framework can succeed, which I think is, in general, the idea of Arab-Israeli normalization. That's where Abraham Accords come in. Can you tell the story of that? Sure. It's an amazing thing. I sit here today, somebody not in government. Every day I see another flight that goes between, or I see an Israeli student studying at a university in Dubai, or a new synagogue opening up in Abu Dhabi, or Bahrain. It gives me such tremendous pride to see all of the progress that's been made. Part of why I wrote the book was to put this down for history's sake, to go through all the different intentional, unintentional, circumstantial things that occurred. It's funny, we left government. There's a lot of people saying, well, this is why. I said, I was at the middle of it, and I couldn't even perfectly articulate why it happened, because it was an evolution of a lot of things. I joke that we made peace on Plan C, but only because we went through the alphabet three times, failing at every letter. By the time, we didn't give up. We kept going, and we got it done. Maybe this is a good place to also step back and say, what is Arab-Israeli normalization? What is the state of things for people who may not be aware before the progress you made? That's probably the best place to start. What we did is we made a peace deal between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, and then Israel and Bahrain. Then we did a deal with Israel and Sudan, then Israel and Kosovo, Israel and Morocco, where basically countries that didn't recognize each other before ended up recognizing each other. All of these were Muslim-majority countries, and getting them to integrate with Israel was a very big thing. The traditional thinking had always been that Muslim Arab countries would not make peace with Israel until the Israeli-Palestinian issue was solved. What we were able to do is separate the issues and then make these connections, which are leading to amazing interaction between Jews and Muslims. Obviously, you have national security, you have emotional benefits from these things, but the single biggest benefit that I've seen from the accords is that if you were an Arab or a Muslim and you were willing to say positive things about Israel or the Jews before this came out, you would have been viciously attacked by the media or the hordes of influencers or the extremists in these different countries. What this did was it brought out into the public the fact that Jews and Muslims can be together and they can be respectful, they can have meals together, and that the cultures can live together in peace. So just to linger on this, it's like once subtle and in another sense, like transformative. So normalization means you're allowed to travel from one place to the other. That has a kind of ripple effect of that you can now start talking in a little bit more accepting way. You can start integrating, traveling, communicating, doing business with, socializing. So the cultures mix, conversations mix, all of this. And this kind of has a ripple effect on the basic connection between these previously disparate worlds. I don't know if there's a nice way to kind of make clear why these agreements have such a transformative effect, especially in the long term. I would say the simplest form is it's just a mindset. And it's almost like you're taught all your life we're enemies or we can't be friends with that tribe on the other side of the fence. And then one day the leaders get up and say, no, it's okay now. And there was never an issue between the people. The people were just taught different things and they were separated from each other. But again, one of the things that I respect about the work you do is you believe in the power of conversation and the power of human interaction. And these issues and gaps between us feel so big when we think about them, when we're told about them, when we read about them. But when we go and sit with each other, all of a sudden we realize maybe we have a lot more in common than we have that divides us. For me, what I've seen about it that's made the biggest difference is I've seen people who wouldn't have the ability to be together, be together. And that's now forming a nucleus of togetherness, which is a restoration. So you think about the modern Middle East from post-Holocaust to now, again, in 1948 after that war of independence, you had Jews living in Baghdad and Cairo. Then they became so anti-Jewish that they then expelled all of the Jews from all these capitals of those cities. So you think about the Jewish history in Baghdad. I mean, I think the Talmud was written in Baghdad. It was a place in Babylon where the Jewish people thrived. I think in 570 BCE when Nebuchadnezzar conquered Jerusalem, he took about 10,000 Jews back with him to Babylon because he thought it'd be good for his economy. And during that place, the Jews actually flourished and had a good life there. So for a thousand years before the Second World War, the Jews and the Muslims lived very peacefully together. So people say that what we're doing now is an aberration. I actually think it's not an aberration. I think it's actually a return to the time where people can live together culturally. And so this is the beginning of the end of the Arab-Israeli conflict. And it's the beginning of togetherness, which, again, you think about how much war, how much provocation, how much terrorism has been made in the name of religious conflict. This is, I think, the start of the process of religious respect and understanding. We've talked about you being attacked in the press for the Russian collusion and other topics. One of the most recent set of attacks comes on the topic of Saudi public investment fund giving two billion dollars to your investment firm after you left government. So that includes a 1.25 percent asset management fee of 25 million dollars a year. Can you respond to these recent set of attacks? Sure. So I left government, obviously worked for four years. It was a very action-packed time. That's why I wrote the book. I wanted to put down all those experiences. I started thinking, what do I want to do next? So my previous career, I'd been in real estate. I'd worked mymy brother on some technology businesses that I'd started, and then I got into government. So I kind of had a career shift, right? In my previous career, obviously, it was very successful. The New York Times, they violated and they published my financial statements. They showed I was making about $50 million a year in the private sector before I went into government. I went into government and I volunteered. I didn't take a salary. I paid for my own health insurance for four years. My wife and I, and then we went and I was thinking, should I go back to my old company or should I start something new? And my thinking was is that I'd, through my time in government, I'd met so many people. I'd learned so much about the world. I had a big understanding now for how the macroeconomic picture worked. And I did feel like there was a lot more that I could do than just going back to real estate. In the meantime, I was getting a lot of calls from different CEOs and companies saying, can you help me with this company? Can you help me with that company? Your knowledge could be helpful to help this company navigate this challenge or to expand internationally. And so I said, you know what? Maybe I should create a business to do an investment firm where I can do something different, where I'm putting together geopolitical expertise and traditional private equity and growth investing and figure out how to do that, where I can do something differentiated, where I can invest in growing things and help with my navigation skills and relationships. So that was kind of the thesis of what I thought could make sense as kind of a next step. I called different friends. They were very excited to back the effort. Obviously, this was coming off the success that I just had in the Middle East where I did six peace deals there. And one of the notions I wanted to be able to do with the firm was to be able to take money from the Gulf and then to be able to invest it in Israel, to continue to build the economic links between the countries. Again, if countries have more economic ties, I think war and fighting is less likely. And then in addition to that, I wanted to figure out how do you bring the entrepreneurs together from both of those countries? So that was really the mission of what I set out to do. So far, I've been enjoying it. It's been a lot of fun. I've been learning a ton. I think we're doing very well with it. In terms of the criticisms, I think that I've been criticized in every step of everything I've always done in my life. And so what I would say is, this business is actually an objective metric business. It's about returns. So in three, four years from now, five years from now, see how I do. Hopefully I'll do very well and judge me based on that. In terms of any of the nefarious things, I haven't been accused of violating any laws and I haven't violated any of the ethics rules either. When I was in government, I every year submitted all my financial to the Office of Government Ethics. They certified it every year and I followed every rule and every law possible. So to my critics, I'll say, criticize me before, you'll criticize me now. I'm gonna keep doing me and I'm gonna keep pursuing things that I think are worthwhile. And I'm very excited about this chapter of my career. Maybe this is a good place to ask in working closely with Donald Trump, what in your sense, looking into the mind of the man, what's the biggest strength of Donald Trump as a leader? I would say his unpredictability. I think that as a leader, he consumes a ton of information. He doesn't like to be managed or have his information filtered. So he'll speak to a lot of people to draw his information himself. He's very pragmatic. I don't see him as terribly ideological. I see him as somebody who's about results. I think he wants to deliver results. And I think ultimately, he's an incredible fighter. He's a big counter puncher, but he also wants to get along with people. And that's probably the biggest surprise that people found with him. I mean, you look at even situations like, I would always tell people, if you disagree with him, don't go on television and criticize him. Just pick up the phone and call him and go see him. And he'll talk to you about it. He may not agree with you. But again, that's what Kim Kardashian did when she had a case of clemency with a woman, Alice Johnson, that she felt strongly about. We went through the case. I wouldn't have had her call if I didn't think it was a legitimate case. So we spent about eight months quietly working through the case, working through the details to make sure that it really was a worthy case. I brought it to President Trump, said, you know, she'd like to come meet with you to talk about this case. And he said, how can I come in? So she came in, we went through the case, and President Trump ultimately granted the clemency to Alice Johnson, who was a woman who was accused of being part of a drug ring. She had basically a life sentence for doing it. She'd served 22 years in prison. While in prison, I mean, she basically was a grandmother, and she was putting on the prison plays. She was mentoring young women in prison. Somebody who, again, there's always a risk, but by and large had a very, very, very low risk of committing a crime in the future. And then it goes back to the notion of, are we gonna judge people by the worst decision they make in their life? And so President Trump was willing to grant the clemency, and it went. And I think that it just goes to the notion of like, maybe this goes back to his unpredictability in a positive way, which is, if you go sit with him and you make your case, he'll hear you, he'll listen to you, and he's not afraid to act, and he's not afraid to be controversial, which I think is a good thing. So from a foreign policy point of view in particular, his unpredictability just meant that everyone was always on their back foot. People were afraid to kind of cross America. And what I would tell people who don't like Trump is I would say, think about how crazy he's making you and his enemies. He did that to the enemies of America. And yeah, so he was a very, very strong president, and I think did a great job. So in some of these agreements I've been talking about and speaking with leaders, how do you think the unpredictability helps? So in all the agreements that I was negotiating, I wasn't doing it as a principle. I was doing it on behalf of President Trump. And people knew that I had access to President Trump, and they knew that I could say, you may say this that we don't like, but I'm gonna have to take it back to him, and then we'll see what he does. And one of the biggest instances was on the USMCA trade deal, where that deal happened because Mexico was legitimately concerned, and smartly so, that President Trump was going to impose tariffs on the car industry, which would have been decimating to their economy. And by the way, he was ready to do it. We were holding him back from doing it with every ounce of strength that we could. So it wasn't a bluff. I mean, that was actually real, but they were smart to read that it was real. And ultimately we created a great win-win deal. Tell you a funny story, just popped into my mind from the tariffs, is we did also, we used a 232 national security exemption to protect our steel industry. And we put tariffs on steel and aluminum. And again, I thought about this because we also negotiated them with Canada. And there was a very funny phone call where Trudeau was calling Trump. And again, they got along decently well. And Trudeau was calling and saying, you can't put national security tariffs on us in Canada. We're your NATO ally. We fought wars with you. We do military together. And Trump says to him, didn't you burn the White House down in 1812? And Trudeau says, that was the French. He says, no, it was the Canadians. And so it was just, like I said, he's always keeping everyone on their toes. But he took very calculated risks. And like I said, everyone was outraged all the time with everything. But if you look at his body of work, people said if he was elected, he would start World War III. Meanwhile, we inherited a world filled with wars, no new wars, right? Three years, he made peace deals, no new wars. He was tough, he was strong. People respected him. He built relationships and got trade deals done, got peace deals done. The economy was rocking. His body of work, I think, was pretty strong as president. Like you said, no new wars. This makes me think if Donald Trump won the presidency, what the current situation in Ukraine would look like. But let me just ask you, zoom out and ask you broadly, do you think the war in Ukraine could have been avoided? And what do you think it takes to bring it to an end? I think 100%, it would have been avoided, not 99%. You know, President Trump for four years had no problems with Russia. You know, we were arming Ukraine, but we were working with Russia. And again, the first two years, we had a little bit of issue working with Russia because they were accused of colluding with us since we had to go through that investigation. But in the second two years, we were trying to focus Russia on what are the areas where we can collaborate together? I think Russia, you know, we thought it was in their strategic advantage to play US and China against each other because of the way that everything was done before. They were stuck with China, but not getting a lot for it. Under Bush, they took Georgia. Under Obama, they took Crimea. Under Trump, there was no problems. And then under Biden, unfortunately, I think they misplayed a couple of things, which I think provoked, you know, Russia to go forward. Still no excuse to do what they did. I think that the invasion was a terrible thing and should not have occurred. But with that being said, I think 100%, if Trump was president, there would not be a war in Ukraine today. Coming to the table and negotiating a peace, whether it's Donald Trump, whether it's Biden, whether it's anybody, what do you think it takes? Do you think it's possible? And if you're in a room, if Jared Kushner is in the room with Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelensky, what does it take to have a productive conversation and what does it take for that conversation to fail? Like what are the trajectories that lead to success and failure? I think we go back to negotiations. Number one is trust, right? Both leaders have to have the ability to communicate what an off-ramp is without fearing it's gonna leak to the public. So if you go to the posture of Zelensky right now, and by the way, President Zelensky, I have a lot of respect for the courage he showed, especially initially. You saw what Ghani did in Afghanistan. They were getting attacked by the Taliban. He took the cash and got the hell out of there. Staying in Kiev, when he did how he did, it was one of the most brave things we've seen in a long time. And he has a ton of my respect and admiration for doing that. But now he's promising his people, we're gonna win the war. And the military action has not necessarily coincided with that sentiment. And so there has to be some form of off-ramp, but he can't say that publicly. So for him to be able to work privately with somebody who can help create a new paradigm where both leaders can say, we're gonna stop the bloodshed, we're gonna stop the risk of nuclear war for the world, we're gonna stop what's happening, that's really what it will take. How that occurs, again, it's not something I'm involved in now, so I don't know who the right broker is or how to put that together. But essentially, they need somebody in between them who can figure out how do you create a landing zone that works, because neither party's gonna jump until the pool is filled with water. And you have to outline what the go forward looks like, because you can't just stop it for them to get worse for both parties. You have to move it forward into what happens next that hopefully can start to turn the tide to benefit both sides where they can focus on the future instead of being stuck into the old paradigm of who started what, who's to blame for what, who did what to who. It's just a lot of tough stuff now that's occurred that's gonna be hard to walk back. And it's a big task to get it done. But for the sake of the world, it'd be amazing if we were able to reach a conclusion to that conflict. Just going back to your earlier mention of North Korea, what do you think it takes to bring Vladimir Putin and Vladimir Zelensky to the table together? Leadership. So you're saying it has to be a US president. It has to be somebody who's willing to put themself on the line to go and do it. And again, if you're the US president and you're the most powerful nation in the world, you should be trying. But I do think, again, the posture that the US has taken has probably been in a place where they, it would be very hard for them to get the trust of Russia based on the way that they've played their moves to date. I always thought from the beginning that Putin would try to bring in President Xi in China to resolve it, to basically give a big screw you to America to say, China's now the one in charge of this, but that hasn't seemed to manifest itself to date either. But it takes leadership. The leaders have to get in and say, let's get everyone together and let's try to get this done because every day it goes wrong. A, more people are dying, and B, we do risk a nuclear war for the world, which is not a good situation. Let me ask, since you helped set up phone calls between Donald Trump, Putin, and the King of Saudi Arabia, if I were to interview Putin, what advice would you give on how to get a deep understanding of the human being? So I didn't deal with Russia a ton, but in my interaction with Putin and with Russia, I would kind of point out a couple of things. Number one is when America was hit with COVID and New York was looking like we were gonna run out of ventilators and masks, Russia was the second country that sent us a plane load of supplies. And they didn't send that because they hate America. They sent that because we were starting to make progress together as countries, and they thought that they wanted to show goodwill to figure out how can we start working together. And again, people may attack me for saying that that sounds naive. Again, the past 15 years may show that that's not the case, but I don't believe that countries have permanent enemies, and I don't believe countries have permanent allies. Right, again, you think about the US and Russia in World War II, we worked together to defeat the Nazis.