I feel like that kind of humility is required to be a great leader. And I feel like that's actually a good way to have long-term power because karma has a viral aspect to it. Just doing good by others, I feel like is a... I'd like to say that's true, Lex. I think it's just way more complicated. I mean, look what happened this week with Kevin McCarthy. He did what he thought was morally right. He thought, you know, he did a bipartisan deal. He was told that they would have his back and then the moment things got tough, they cut him loose. So again, I don't know if that was the right thing or the wrong thing. I've also seen leaders on the other end say, I'm gonna do things that are short-term, more selfish, but the way they justify to themselves is to say, I believe that myself staying in power is existential to the greater good. So I will do things that maybe are not in the greater good now because I believe that my maintaining power is. And so it's complicated. In an idealized world, I'd love to believe that's the case, but it's just way more complicated than that. Yeah. I wish it wasn't, but it is. Yeah. Maybe I do just wish people zoomed out and people in politics zoomed out a bit and just asked themselves, what are we all doing this for? You know, like sometimes you can get like a little bit lost in the game of it. If you zoom out, you realize like integrity is way more important than like little gains in money or little gains in power in the long-term. It's when you look at yourself in the mirror at the end of the day. And also how history remembers you. I just feel like people do some dark stuff when they're like in that moment when they're losing power and they try to hold on a little too hard. This is when they can do really dark things, like bring out the worst in themselves. And it's just sad to see. And I wish there was a kind of machinery of government would inspire people to be their best selves in their last days versus their worst selves. When that system gets invented, you know, you'll share with me what it is, but it's a, look, let me give you another way to frame it, which is, and this was kind of the revelation we spoke before about, you know, kind of when I was getting my butt kicked by the Russia investigation and all the different areas. But kind of the basic framework I looked at was I said, okay, you know, this all feels tough, but I said, the game's the game. The game's been here, you know, way longer, you know, but way before I came and it'll be here way long after I leave. And so I have two choices. I can complain that the game's tough. It's not fair. It's not moral. Or I can go and I can try to play the game as hard as possible. And I think that there's two different things, right? You have people who are willing to kind of sit in the stands and they're willing to yell at the players or make their points known. Or you have people who are willing to suit up and get in the arena and go play. And I have a lot of respect for the people who suit up and go play. And again, some of them, you know, I wish they would play for different means, but the fact that they're willing to put their name on the ballot, make the sacrifice, and go put on the pads and get hit and hit others, I think that you need those people. And I wish more people who had maybe the moral wiring that you discussed would be putting on a helmet and going to play, because it's hard. It's hard. I agree with you. I just would love to fix the aspect of the Russia collusion accusation, the virality, the power of that, because that's a really discouraging thing for people. Maybe it's the way it has to be, but it seems like a disincentive to people to participate. It is. But I'll give you, again, an optimistic side of it is that, you know, what you're seeing now with social media is I do think with what's happening at X, there is now more of a reversion towards more egalitarian, right? And egalitarianism of information. And so for many years, the media publications were the gate holders. They were the gatekeepers. And then you had these social media companies that grew. They became so powerful, but then they were tilting the scales. Why they were doing it, you know, we can go through long explanations for that. But if there truly is a real forum and a democratization of information, then you would think that the marketplace of ideas would surface the real ones and discredit the non-real ones. And I think that as a society, we're starting to kind of come to grips with the fact that the power dynamic is changing and that some of these institutions that we used to have a lot of faith in don't deserve our faith. And some of them, you know, will actually reform and maybe re-earn our faith. So I think that there could be an optimistic tone. Again, the years of Trump, I think that, you know, he was an outsider and, you know, he represented something that was existential to the system, right? You think about for the 30 years before, you were either part of, you know, the Clinton dynasty or the Bush dynasty. I think a lot of people in the country felt like that whole class, whether you were wearing a red shirt or a blue shirt, wasn't representing them. And Trump represented a true outsider to that system. And I do think that as he went in there, there was a lot of norms that were broken to try to stop him from changing the traditional power structure. So I think that we're at a time where maybe there will be an optimistic breakthrough where you'll have institutions that will allow for a lot more transparency into what truth really is. I'd love to go back and talk to you about the Middle East because there's so many interesting components to this. Let's talk about Saudi Arabia. And first, let me ask you about MBS, Mohammed bin Salman, the Crown Prince. So you've gotten to know him pretty well. You've become friends with him. What's he like as a human being? Just on a basic human level, what's he like? So for the listeners, Mohammed bin Salman is now the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. He has risen to that position over the last couple of years. He's been a tremendous reformer for the country. He's gone in and he's really modernized the economy. He's put a lot more investment into the country. He's marginalized the religious police and he's really done a good job to bring modernization and a lot of reform. So he's been a great reformer. What he's like as a person is he's very high energy. He's got tremendous candle power, very, very smart, incredibly well-read. When he was younger, his father would give him a book a week and make him report on it on the weekend. He was trained as a leader and as a politician really by his father. He's not Western educated. So he grew up in the Saudi culture and he's a real Saudi nationalist. He loves their history, loves their heritage, has a deep understanding of the tribal nature of the region. And his father was actually known to be a tremendous politician. So when he was governor of Riyadh, people who I speak to today about him say that if they had a full election, he would have won in a landslide. They say every time somebody went to the hospital, he was the first person to call. Anytime there was a funeral, he was the first person to show up. He's a very, very beloved leader. Mohammed bin Salman, he was a businessman before he got into Crown Prince. So he thinks really with a business mindset about how he runs the country. And he's brought, I think, a different mindset and energy to the Middle East. One thing I'll say that maybe that comes to mind here is that I remember early on talking with him about all the different initiatives he was taking on. He's building a big city called Neom in the desert in a place where there really was nothing on the Red Sea. And a lot of people were criticizing the ambition of the plan. And I was sitting with him one night and I said, why are you taking on all these things? You've got a lot of different programs, but what most politicians do is they set lower expectations and then they exceed the expectations. And he looked at me without hesitation. He says, Jared, the way I look at it is that in five years from now, if I set five goals and I achieve five goals, I'll have achieved five things. If I set 100 goals and I fail at 50 of them, then five years I'll have accomplished 50 things. And so it's a very different mindset as a leader. The way I got to work with him was, Saudi Arabia was a big topic in the campaign, President Trump was basically saying during the campaign that they've got to pay for their fair share. They haven't been a great partner in the region. He's very critical of Saudi. And then during the transition, I was asked by several friends to meet with a representative of Saudi Arabia. I said, I don't want to meet with them. But I came over and I met and they said, well, we want to make changes. And I said, well, you have to make changes to how you treat women. Then women couldn't drive, they had guardianship laws. So you got to start working with Israel. You have to be paying more of your fair share and you have to be stopping the Wahhabism that's being spread. And again, I had no knowledge. These were just kind of the traditional talking points about Saudi Arabia. So the guy I was with basically said, it was a guy Fadal Tunzi, who's a very respected minister there. He says, Jared, he says, you don't know much about Saudi Arabia, do you? I said, no, no, no, I don't. Just really what I, really what I,kind of been told or what I read. And he says, okay, let me do this. We want to be great allies with America. We've traditionally been great allies with America. Can I come back to you with a proposal on ways that we can make progress on all of the different areas where we have joint interests? And keep in mind, at that point in time, the Middle East was a mess. And probably the single biggest issue we had after ISIS was the ideological battle. If you remember in 2016, there was the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando. You had the San Bernardino shooting. And people were being radicalized online with the extremism. And then there was a lot of crimes that were happening because of that. It was a big topic in the campaign. And so that, when I was thinking about talking to different generals and what capabilities the US had to really combat the extremism and the ideological battle, what we realized was that Saudi Arabia is the custodian of the two holiest sites in Islam, the Mecca and Medina, that that would be the best partner to work with if they were willing to. But for years, they really hadn't been willing to kind of lean into this fight. So I said, sure, give a proposal. So they come back, give a proposal. And they said, look, if you make President Trump's first trip to Saudi Arabia, we will do all these different things. We'll increase our military spending and cooperation. We'll counter all the terror financing. Unbelievable layer. So I took the proposal. I went to the national, then it was General Flynn. I said, if Saudi Arabia did these things, would this be considered a big unbelievable, but it will never happen? I said, well, they're telling me they want to do these things. Again, having no foreign policy experience, I'm just saying I've got somebody telling me they want to do it. And that's kind of where we started. We get into office. I don't think much more about it. And then I think it was like maybe a month in, President Trump has a call with King Salman. And before the call, we're in the Oval Office. And the President's basically saying, well, this is what we want to go through. And I have Secretary Mattis and Secretary Tillerson, the Minister of Defense, and the Secretary of State basically saying, you have to deal with MBN. MBN is the guy who's been our partner for all these years. He's the head of intelligence and he's been a great partner. I said, well, if he's been a great partner, then why do we have all these problems that you guys are complaining about with Saudi? I said, I've been told that we have this proposal from MBS, who's the deputy crown prince, and that's who we should be dealing with on this. And so the phone call starts and President Trump listened to both of us. And on the phone call with King Salman, President Trump says, okay, we'll go through all these things. These are the things we want to get done. And he says, well, who should we deal with? And King Salman says, deal with my son, the deputy crown prince, MBS. And so President Trump said on the phone, have him deal with Jared because I think he knew that if he put him with the other guys, they were not believers in what he had the ability to do. And that's how I got assigned to work with him. I get back to my office after that, have an email from him, spoke to him for the first time. And then we just went to work. And a lot of people were betting against that trip. They thought it wasn't going to be successful. And they've been betting against him and he's been underestimated, but he's been doing an incredible job. And the whole Middle East is different today because of the work that he's done. Maybe it's instructive to go through the mental journey that you went on from the talking points, the basic narratives, the very basic talking points, understanding of Saudi Arabia, to making that human connection with MBS and making the policy connection that it's actually possible to solve problems. What was that journey like? Why was it so difficult to take for others? And why were you effective in being able to take that journey yourself? Maybe some of it came from my inexperience, but my desire to listen and hear people. So I had this proposal. I was told that all of these things were good. Then we're trying to schedule this trip. And the National Security Council calls a meeting where we're in the situation room and we have Homeland Security, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State, and everyone's saying, this is going to be a disaster. They said, if we go to Saudi Arabia, the Saudis never keep their promises. And our Secretary of State at the time was a gentleman named Rex Tillerson, who'd been the CEO of Exxon. So he dealt with all these people very extensively. And he basically said, in my experience, the Saudis won't come through. And Jared, you don't know what you're doing. You're wasting your time. And I basically was at a point where I said, look, guys, but they're saying they want to do all these things. Shouldn't we at least give them a chance to try to do it? Why do we want to predetermine their direction by not giving them a chance to change? Just because things in the past haven't gotten the way you want them to, that doesn't mean they can't go that way in the future. So we fought the battle. They basically deferred and let me go through with it. But when I do the planning meetings for the trip, nobody would show up because they all thought it was going to be an absolute disaster. And by the way, they probably weren't wrong to think that because I'd never planned a foreign trip before and I'd never done any foreign policy before. So during the planning, I'd speak to MBS almost every day. And I'd go through all the different details and the things that would be coming up. And I said, look, I really need to get these things in writing. He sent over a guy, Dr. Mossad Al-Aiban, who's a tremendous diplomat for them. And he came to Washington, stayed for three weeks, and we worked through all the different details of what we needed. And we ended up coming to an arrangement on what it should be. So I think about now, in retrospect, why I was so focused on getting things like this done and why I even believed that they could be possible. But the answer is really the people I was talking to on the other end were telling me that these things were possible. And so just because they hadn't been done before and just because others around me didn't believe that they could be done, I wasn't willing to just say, well, let's not try. LBW It just seems like that cynicism that takes over is paralyzing. And you sent me a great essay from Paul Graham, who I'm a big fan of, that I think explains a lot of your success. The essay is called How to Do Great Work. And people should go definitely read the full essay. There's a few things I could read from it. Some quotes, having new ideas is a strange game because it usually consists of seeing things that were right under your nose. Once you've seen a new idea, it tends to seem obvious. Why did no one think of this before? Seeing something obvious sounds easy and yet empirically having new ideas is hard. Like the steps you took seem trivial and yet nobody was taking them, or at least in the past they weren't successful. So the successes you've had were as simple as essentially picking up the phone or trying. There's a lot of interesting things here to talk about this aspect of doing this seemingly simple that seems to be so hard to do. It, as Paul describes, requires a willingness to break rules. There are two ways to be comfortable breaking rules, to enjoy breaking them and to be indifferent to them. That's an interesting distinction. I call these two cases being aggressively and passively independent-minded. So again, that's to enjoy breaking the rules or to be indifferent to the rules. The aggressively independent-minded are the naughty ones. Rules don't merely fail to stop them. Breaking rules gives them additional energy. For this sort of person, delight at the sheer audacity of a project sometimes supplies enough activation energy to get it started. The other way to break the rules is not to care about them at all, or perhaps even to know they exist. This is why novices and outsiders often make new discoveries. Their ignorance of a field, ignorance maybe in quotes, of a field's assumptions act as a source of temporary passive independent-mindedness. Aspies also seem to have a kind of immunity to conventional beliefs. Several I know say that this helps them to have new ideas. So the aggressive and the passive is such an interesting way of looking at it. Perhaps some aspect of this, at least in the story you told, is some passive aspect where you're like not even acknowledging, not even caring that there was rules, just kind of asking the simple question and taking the simple action. I think that is funny. That was an essay I read, and we're doing just a snippet of it, but I would encourage anyone listening to go and find it and read the entire thing because it's something that really spoke to me as I was transitioning into my new career now. And I just loved it. But when we were talking about why certain people who don't have traditional qualifications are able to come in and do incredible work and solve complex problems, it made me think of that essay, which is why I shared it. And I think that in the context of the work that I was doing here, perhaps not having the historical context became an advantage and obviously went back and then tried to study it. But if you go into a problem, I always find that, especially in the political realm, my favorite political issues are ones where they're contrarian by being obvious. And sometimes they feel very intuitive, and so you take them on. There's always a lot of resistance when you go against something that's been accepted as the way that you're supposed to do things. And I came to learn over the course of my time in government that when everyone was agreeing with what I was doing, then it actually made me more nervous because I felt like, you have these problems. They haven't been solved for a long time. And then if you take the same approach as others, you're going to fail just like they did. So taking a different approach doesn't mean you're going to succeed, but at least if you fail, you're going to fail in an original way. And so I did like this a lot. And I think that what I saw was the people who were very good at getting things done that hadn't been done before were people who came with different qualifications, different perspectives, and they came in and really worked the problem in untraditional ways. And so I think in the Middle East, I came in with a very different approach than people before me, not because I came in deliberately trying to do it differently, but because I came in trying to listen and understand from people why the problem hadn't been solved and then think from a first principles perspective on what's the right perspective today, not based on what happened 50 years ago or not based on what somebody's feelings who were hurt, but what's the right thing to make people's lives better, to make the world a safer and more prosperous place tomorrow. So if we can go back to MPS for a little bit, from the person to the vision, there's something called Vision 2030 about his vision for Saudi Arabia in the future. Can you maybe look from his perspective, what is his vision for the region? Sure. So it's funny, we were talking before about how we wish leaders would set big audacious goals and take on big things. Well, that's what he did with Vision 2030. When he was young, and again, this is something that was derided and a lot of people were very skeptical of it, but the people who actually picked it up and read it said, this is a very thoughtful plan that's very achievable.