first monarch to rule over the entire island of Great Britain. Conspirators try to assassinate him and blow up Parliament, aka the Guy Fawkes thing. Charles I and Parliament have tensions, and thus begins the English Civil War. Oliver Cromwell becomes Lord Protector after dissolving the monarchy, but after he dies, the monarchy is restored with Charles II. Man, you guys really went back to that monarchy thing fast. In the 17th century, Scotland unsuccessfully attempts colonies in Panama and Nova Scotia and has an economic crisis. 1707, the union between Scotland and England is finalized. Queen Anne dies, ending the House of Stuart, and in comes the House of Hanover. Wars, wars, and more expensive wars. Great Britain taxes colonies to try and make up for the debt. Colonies aren't happy, which leads to the War of Independence for America. The Industrial Revolution. Let's just pass over that whole chapter. Captain James Cook swings by Australia, New Zealand, and hey, let's establish some more penal colonies. Napoleonic Wars. East India Company is met with revolt and leads to a full takeover of India in 1858. Berlin Conference split up areas that European powers would administer in Africa. World War I, 1921, land grabs from the crumbling German and Ottoman empires resulted in the height of the territorial rule for the UK. 1922, Ireland breaks away. World War II, the whole Winston Churchill and the Battle of Blitz stuff happens. Afterwards, one by one, the former territories got their independence. The Commonwealth of Nations is established. Joins NATO. Paramilitary violence in Northern Ireland. Sorry about that. Joins the European Economic Community, which was like a predecessor to the EU. Monetarism policies are enacted under the Margaret Thatcher years. Falkland Islands War. 2008 global financial crisis followed by a Scottish referendum ending in remaining part of the UK. 2016, the UK votes at nearly 52% to leave the EU. Queen Elizabeth II, longest reigning British monarch, passes away. Her son, King Charles III, is coronated. Crowned. So there you go, an oversimplified outline of the thousands of years of like 70, 20, 10% British, Scottish, Welsh history all jammed into a cheesy YouTube skit with minimal props and slapstick humor. The thing you'll hear most often from people who love the royal family is how good it is for tourism. Despite the fact that if we got rid of the monarchy, we could turn Buckingham Palace into a really expensive museum. But then there wouldn't be a monarch to like fantasize about the fairy tale monarch, princess, king, queen stuff, you know? It's like. But then maybe King Charles could retrain and get a different job as a charter quantity spade. Yeah, but it takes away the whole fantasy aspect. We think of monarchs as like magical creatures. That's the problem. Despite an increasing number of Republicans, which in this country means people vying for a republic against the idea of a monarchy, most Brits are OK with the royal family. It has a unique role as both representing longevity and tradition and tabloid fodder. I don't know. I really do think it does have a lot to do with tourism. True. And then we come in. Whereas when Brits go on holiday within our own country, we like to go to the seaside. Places like Southend. The longest pleasure pier in the world. And speaking of which, we got a guy who kind of saved a lot of people over there and he's going to do the famous places segment. Come on in, Mr. Tommy Boy. So other than Southend Pier, the longest pleasure pier in the world, which I did save by peeing on when it was on fire. True story. Other places you need to visit are London, obviously. St Paul's Cathedral. Buckingham Palace. The London Eye. Tower of London. Tower Bridge. The House of Parliament. Big Ben. Red telephone boxes, of which many have now been repurposed. Police boxes for you Doctor Who fans. Stonehenge. Seahenge, which isn't even a henge. Silbury Hill. The Royal Ascot and its many funny hats. Bath with its Roman baths. The Jurassic Coast, including Dyrdodore. The Ammonites and Fossil Beach in Lyme Regis. Windsor Castle. The Shambles in York. The Peak and Lake Districts. The Eden Project. Next, we're going to do Wales. Many castles, including Cardiff, Conwy, Caerphilly, Cardiff. Snowdonia with Mount Snowdon, which you can actually go up on a train. Penrins Lake Quarry. The Underground Trampoline Park in Clackwed. Dobby the House Elf's grave, where people keep leaving their socks. So next, we're going to go up to Scotland. First, you have to start with Edinburgh with its Royal Mile. Calton Hill. The castles. St Kilda. Orkney and Lewis for Neolithic stone circles. Shetland for ponies. Isle of Skye. Loch Ness. What I personally think is the coolest thing in the whole of the UK. Fingal's Cave. It's on the island of Staffart. You can walk in the cave. You can walk on it. On top, there are puffins everywhere. And when you're on the boat, there are whales and dolphins swimming next to you. We jump across to Northern Ireland, which you can actually see from Scotland. Fun fact. And we start off with the Giant's Causeway. Carrickeread Rope Bridge. The Titanic Museum. The Dark Hedges. And now for the overseas territories. The Gibraltar Rock with its Barbary Apes. Jersey, where you can see some cows. Guernsey and Alderney. Some of the most fortified islands on Earth. And go to the Island Man to see the TT motorbike races. I mean, overall, I'm so glad I got to do this trip. It was so fun. It was so fun. We went to Fingal's Cave. Whew, that was a lot of the process and we didn't even scratch the surface. Or the scratchy bottom. Ah ha ha. But alas, we must move on to the next segment of this ever complicated nation, the physical geography. Now, when discussing the landscape of the UK, most people, you know, they just kind of like default in their minds to the typical hilly green pastures or the Scottish Highlands and just like a lot of rain. And yes, that does apply to much of the country. But if we're going to be technical, you can also include coconut tree-lined atolls, frozen glaciers, erupting volcanoes, beaches with penguins, and much more. Let's look at the map to explain, shall we? First of all, the main part of the country, Great Britain and Northern Ireland, are located in the western parts of the Eurasian Plate with many, many fault lines feeding through, especially in the island of Great Britain. The most general way to divide the island is with the Tees X Line, which is an imaginary diagonal boundary that separates the lowlands with the highland regions in the north and west. This geological formation is also what contributes to some hot spring areas along the line, most notably in areas like Derbyshire and the city of Bath. The most notable fault line, though, would be the Great Glen Fault up in Scotland, which splits like a scar through the Scottish Highlands, which are the highest part of the country and also hold the tallest peak of the country, Ben Nevis. This fault line also creates long, deep rift lakes like the famous Loch Ness, which is the most voluminous lake in the entire country, holding nearly double the amount of water in all the lakes of England and Wales combined. If you want to find the lake with the largest surface area, though, you'd have to go to Northern Ireland and visit Loch Né. If you want to find the longest river, though, many people might mistakenly say it's the Thames, which, although it is an important river that goes through London, it is not the longest. The longest is actually the Severn River that starts in the highlands of Wales and meanders through England and empties into Bristol Bay. In any case, if we want to be completely well-rounded on the sovereign domain of the UK, you could include everything from the tropical beaches of Caribbean island territories like Anguilla and Turks and Caicos. Montserrat Island actually had an enormous volcanic eruption in 1995 that destroyed the entire southern part of the island, including the former capital, Plymouth. The South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are the coldest parts of the UK's territories with permanent glaciers and protected wildlife breeding grounds. The South Sandwich Islands are pretty volcanically active, too, especially Mount Belinda, Mount Currie, and Mount Michael, which create an eerie sight of fire and ice when they erupt. In any case, these are all just examples that show the range of what you can naturally find in areas that fall within the sovereignty of the UK. Now, despite being a nation smaller in area than the country of Guinea and West Africa, the UK today stands with the sixth largest national economy by nominal GDP in the world. We used to be number five. Many factors attributed to this prosperity growth, such as the Industrial Revolution or the fact that we were an island isolated, but not too isolated from continental Europe, with access to multiple naval trade routes that we dominated and protected. Now, this is where I usually take my triple shot espresso break and Noel fills in for the rest of the segment. However, since I'm here in the UK, I guess I'll have to switch things up and do an English breakfast tea break. Coming right up. Here you go. Take this. Oh, wow. This is a thing that you guys do. Sugar? Uh, you're getting too- That much? Okay. It's not bad. It's good. But like, is there any way to make it stronger? It's as strong as it needs to be. He's drinking it. Can I try some? I don't hate it as much as I should. You don't hate it as much as- Yes! America and the UK join forces. All right. The UK. Let's get to it. Okay. So historically, many of the parts that made up the UK followed some brutal and ineffective economic practices. For example, people were expected to stay and work in their home parishes, even if there was no work. Those that wandered off to find work elsewhere were deemed vagabonds and if caught were subject to things like whippings or being put into stocks. Yeah, that didn't work out so well. Eventually though, over time, many parts of what are now England fell into a system of mercantilism, or a policy that attempted to maximize tariff exports with quotas while minimizing imports. That kind of worked, but as you know, most of the world hates tariffs, so eventually they had to drop that system in 1840. The Industrial Revolution was without a doubt a game changer that launched the UK into global dominance. Things like the sewing machine, steam-powered engines, and turbines, the telegraphs revolutionized the entire manufacturing system where now things were made by machine instead of by hand. Every region had their distinct industry and resources. Newcastle focused on shipbuilding from Manchester cotton, Middlesbrough, iron and steel, Scotland, wool, and linen. Telegraphs could now send messages from the UK to India in hours. You could arrive to a destination in a few hours via train instead of days by horse and carriage. With this new advancement and advantage, the UK changed their strategy becoming a hegemonic naval powerhouse while subsidizing and delegating specific regions for private trading companies to monopolize off of. For example, the Muskogee Company was in charge of trading with Russia. The East India Company took over the Indian Ocean, and the Hudson Bay Company was in charge of Canada. Granted, much of their economic activity was also riddled with labor from enslaved African peoples, even though it was never recognized in British law. Most of the about 2.5 million people were transported to the Caribbean, the second most popular destination after Brazil, to work on mostly sugar plantations between the 17th and 19th centuries. Eventually slavery was abolished in 1807 with the Slave Trade Act. However, in practice it still went on for over two more decades until the Slave Abolition Act was passed in 1833. Of course, this was a dark moment of history for the UK. Eventually those sugar plantation islands would gain independence and form new nations like Jamaica, Barbados, and most of the lesser Antilles Islands. Overall, you can see how the story of industrialization mixed with naval trade were key factors. And speaking of naval activity, you can occasionally find things like grey seals and basking sharks in the waters around the UK. And to talk more about the wildlife, here's Gary Arlo. You look a lot like Caleb. All back! You can't get rid of me and my amazingly accurate Aussie accent. So first, let's focus on Great Britain. Today there are 14 national parks, nine in England, three in Wales, and two in Scotland. There aren't many large mammals found on the island. Today, the largest native mammal is the red deer. Most of the predators like wolves and bears were hunted to extinction centuries ago. Those bearskin caps worn by the Queen's Guard were actually made from Canadian black bear pelts. As a temperate climate zone, reptiles are not very common. Only three native species of lizard exist and all snakes except the European edda are non-venomous. The national animals of the UK all make no sense. For England, it's the lion, which is not even native to the European continent, let alone the UK. Whereas for Scotland, it's the unicorn and Wales is the Welsh dragon, which haven't been discovered.