yet, but I'm on it. Most people will say that the English bulldog is a very iconic animal that epitomises the British spirit. Otherwise, if we are discussing the overseas territories abroad, the wildlife spectrum expands to a wide range that includes things like flamingos and iguanas and Turks and Caicos to elephant seals and macaroni penguins of the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands as they are very popular breeding ground for various species. I guess that's it. I guess I'll go back into the blackness now. I fade out. Obscurities, where I go? Where will he go next? Thank you, Gary. Definitely not Caleb Harlow. Well, as you can see, the ocean has played a huge role in the UK soil, whether it be the naval trading routes or the fishing industry. To talk more about the food of the UK, here's one of our British Jagger peeps, Rob. Hey, what's going on, guys? So it's my section now. Know what? I'm coming for you. The Britain tends to have a reputation, particularly among the rest of Europe, for having dull, bland, flavorless food. But you know what? I would say that's not the case. It's just we enjoy more cozy food and we do have flavor. For one, the most popular dish in Britain by some distance is a curry. Most notably is the chicken tikka masala, which wasn't even invented in India, claimed to be invented by a Pakistani in Glasgow. The dish we're most particularly proud of has to be the full English. You know, your breakfast, the eggs, your beans, bacon, sausage, black pudding, sheared tomatoes and mushrooms. Otherwise, some of the top dishes you might encounter on a visit to the UK are things like Yorkshire pudding, bangers and mash, marmite. If you do put it on toast, you've got to put it lightly. You can't overdo it. Lancashire hot pot, toad in the hole, Welsh rare bit, Cornish pasties, Scotch egg, beef Wellington, shepherd's pie, steak and kidney pie, pie and mash with jelly deals, which is the East London, Cockney delicacy. We love our meat pies. And of course, you cannot visit the UK without having our most famous dish, fish and chip. Whitby is known for having some of the best fish and chips in the country. For dessert, you might want to try something like an Eton mess, Bakewell tart, sticky toffee pudding, trifle and so much more. I hope you guys come and have a bite. See you in the UK. Look out for Rob Peters. Thank you, Rob. Hey Noah, he said he's coming for you. What do you say to that? We'll see. Well, that's all I got for you all today. I will catch you on the next one. Back to you, Barb's and Jay. Thank you. That was awesome. You did a great job. We just had a whole section about British food and you didn't mention crumpets. Oh. Gotta have it. I'll get your crumpet. Hang on. Oh, oh, okay. This is a crumpet. Is that butter? I like butter. I approve. Uh, demographics. Demographics, okay. No. Question is, what does it mean to be British? Simply beans on toast. A British person is a Greg sausage roll. Knowing the difference between a cheeky Nando's and spoons. Welcome to Wales. We actually are a country. We have a language. It's the rugby, the communities and the sights, as you can see. For me, a Scottish person is someone who has broad, thick accent that is barely recognisable. Iron Brew, The Proclaimers, Still Game, Haggis, This Is Our, We Hill and Glen. Full English Breakfast on a Saturday morning and irony. You should have a Sunday roast in a pub on Sunday. Someone of any background and everyone has a voice, everyone can say what they want. Bloody brilliant at queuing. We could be passively, aggressively polite. Someone who loves to complain about the weather. You complain about the weather, complain about the football, even when they win. My thing I think that relates to all British people is the fact that we created all these sports and yet we're so bad at all of them. Uniform, the benches for the year six, Biff and shit. Someone from the UK is very self-deprecating. We love to take the piss. Kind of like licorice all sorts. Everyone is mixed up with different things but it's kind of like a big family that kind of argues with each other. So what is a person from the UK? Well, I mean that question already in itself kind of has a little bit of a title dilemma in it. Sometimes it's hard to even give a demonym for the people living here and for many of the people and depending on the area the title British might not even be considered applicable. Yeah, Scottish and Welsh people will typically tell you that they are Scottish and Welsh first. People on the Isle of Man are manks and all those penguins in South Georgia are... But for what it's worth there's so much that goes into the concept of identity. When you break down the typical person that comes from the UK it's not an easy question to answer. But what we can attempt to break down is the ethnic makeup of the country in the demographics graph. Henceforth, let's do it. For one, the UK has just over 68 million people and as of 2023 is speculated to now have the third largest population in Europe just surpassing France. When it comes to ethnic makeup it's a little complicated to come by but according to the most recent data from the Office of National Statistics it is reported that the largest group are the white British peoples at somewhere around 87% of the country. This category is pretty broad however. The office designates white into subgroups of white British which includes Scottish and Welsh, Irish, Irish Traveler and whites of other nationalities. The remaining 13-ish percent are made up of other non-white ethnic backgrounds. The largest being Asian British peoples at somewhere around 7% of the country. The majority come from South Asian countries like India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. About 3% are black British, mostly from Caribbean and West African backgrounds, and around 2% identify as ethnically mixed individuals and around 1% identify with other groups. The UK uses the type G plug outlet and they drive on the left side of the road and fun fact it's because of the jousting thing I believe? Sort of. So no one really knows why but one theory is that when medieval jousting happened you used to hold a sword in your right hand so it made sense to pass on the left. The majority of the UK uses the British pound sterling as its currency, sometimes called quid. That's right. Except in certain overseas territories they may use other regional currencies. And that brings us to another quirky aspect of the UK, units of measurement. So the UK was of course the birthplace of the famous Imperial system. However over the past few decades the UK has been begrudgingly transitioning partially to metric. And the choice of units to use is absolutely insane. For example, speed, miles per hour, temperature, centigrade. For weight, if the subject is a person you can use stone or pounds but everything else kilos and gram. For distance, if it's long distance like on the road we use miles and less if you're running but if measuring a person use feet and inches any other object though meters and centimeters. For volume. Liters and milliliters unless it's beer or milk when we use pints but only cow's milk not plant milk in which case they use pints but pints that are a little bigger than American pints. Yeah that's a thing. That's a thing. Although there's technically no official language the country's de facto national language is of course English. Or technically modern English which is incredibly different from old English. And during the 16th century Shakespearean times an early version of the modern style of English we know today started to evolve. Thank you Shakespeare. And this of course brings us to the famous British versus American English scenario. The spelling subtleties are minor. Brits tend to spell words that are more similar to their Latin and Germanic origins whereas Americans spell things more phonetically. Otherwise some words are just completely different such as apartment flat fries chips chips crisps truck lorry gas petrol cookie biscuit trash can rubbish bin yard garden sidewalk pavement pavement road surface candy sweets faucet tap spigot tap flashlight torch oatmeal porridge But I do admit I like porridge better because it reminds me of fairy tales from childhood. Just try saying the word porridge and not being just a little bit more happy. Porridge it's like the Goldilocks and the three bears. Porridge. Porridge. And don't even get me started on the accents. In fact it's speculated that the UK has the largest variation of accents in a single language of any country in the world. Somewhere around 40 to 50 I believe. It is nuts. If you think about just how small our islands are and yet the accents have remained really resilient. The two cities of Liverpool and Manchester only 30 miles apart they sound completely different. Otherwise the UK also has regionally recognized native Celtic based minority languages. For example Cornish is spoken in Cornwall by about four people. And Scottish Gaelic is spoken in Scotland. And by far the biggest of the surviving Celtic languages is Welsh. There are even Welsh TV channels and shows, radio stations and almost all road signs are posted in Welsh and English in Wales. Each of these languages play a vital role to the cultures of their respective communities. Religion. Now this is an interesting one because for most of the UK's history there's always been kind of like a complication when it came to religious affairs and leadership. After the Church of England renounced papal authority from the Catholic Church in 1534 things got tricky. It was kind of like Oh heavens our dear monarch hath doth dunneth died Who shalt beeth next in line If It's Insert name of next to kin But here's the problem The Catholic Jolly toddley wonkles No Let's burn things That seemed to solve problems Burn And that's like how 28% of their domestic war started. In any case the country is technically a Christian country. Actually it's technically a theocracy where the crown gets its power from God. Long story. A majority of them hold religion to more of a traditional role mostly preserved for national festivals, traditions and even schools and politics. With all that said and done it's very important to also highlight the immigrant and non-European communities that make up a very notable demographic of the UK as well. The black community dates back to the 17th century when attendants and servants were brought over such as John Blank during the Tudor dynasty who was paid about 16 pence a day for his trumpeting skill. Most of the enslaved black people were brought to the Caribbean not Great Britain so the black British community stayed relatively small and was mostly confined to Liverpool. It wasn't until the mid 20th century when communities from the Caribbean and West Africa started to set up communities over here. The UK also has the oldest Chinese community in Europe arriving in the 19th century followed by other Asian groups like Indians and Arabs. Basically no matter who you are or what you are everyone born and raised in the UK will have a common understanding of a certain set of values and customs unique to the UK. For one the schooling system. Oh this is a weird one. Yeah so you might have got hints of what it's like from the Harry Potter films and books. Uniforms are worn not only to show school identity but also to foster a sense of unity and equality. And you can't make fun of the kids that wear bad clothes because it's like they're all wearing the same thing. Yeah. Yeah nobody can well you can still bully people. Also like if you don't. Just not on clothes. Education is a huge part of our culture. English, maths. That's right maths not math. You say maths. I say maths. Not mathematics. And science and even physical education are compulsory subjects for every stage until the GCSE exams and compulsory education ends at age 18. Yeah and you have that college is another thing you guys have but it's like you're. Well right so the word college is for older children it's for teenagers who've chosen to study something very specific. Yes. Yeah. Whereas in America it's just you call college what we call university. It's where we get wasted because we're saying we're studying but we're not. Another unique trait of the UK's social atmosphere is the fact that since it is a constitutional monarchy much of the country has a deep tie to the traditions related to said monarchy. The inner core of the royal family today has about 50 or so members that are either descended or married into the House of Windsor. Only about half of them actually carry out royal duties which usually include diplomatic missions and being the face of the UK. Whatever you want to make of that. Outside of the royal family of course many noblemen were appointed leadership roles over certain areas and today you can still even find many people that are descended from these lesser ranked individuals that had ties to the monarchs..