Well you can but you have to go to the very posh public schools which by the way is what we call what you call private schools. Right. You're likely to run into people who say oh I'm actually 718th in line to the throne because my third father once removed was the 13th duke and duchess of Wyndham. Sometimes you'll find heirs to the throne where you least expect it. For example did you know that Olympian Zara Phillips is the Queen's granddaughter. No I did not know that. But we can learn more about the sports. Sport. Of the UK with art with the sports part. Sport part. The sport part. All right guys I'm back. Let's get athletic. And the UK is quite the contender. They have nearly a thousand medals in the Olympics and nearly 300 of which are gold. The UK is the father of many types of sports. Rugby. Cricket. Yes even soccer or football. And hey for all you Brits that are criticizing us Americans for calling it soccer. We got the word from you. You invented it. It came from the word association football. So it's kind of your fault. Although the concept of playing a game where you kick a ball around has been around since the ancient times. The modern version of what we call football was started in the UK in the 19th century using inflated pig bladders. I wonder how they got started with that. They're just like they're eating some bacon and then they're like oh that looks kind of inflatable. So far England has won one World Cup in 1966 against West Germany. And it was in the iconic old Wembley Stadium that has since been torn down due to infrastructure problems and it was buried under a huge grass mound. Also the trophy was stolen but found by Pickles the dog. True story. Either way football is such a huge part of the UK's identity and they could talk about it forever. They even have a subculture of hooligans or the obnoxious football fans that like always get drunk and start fights and beat each other up. It's almost like a whole other sport itself and it's equally entertaining to watch. Like drunken MMA right? Yeah. Yeah. Otherwise the modern form of rugby or rugby union was invented in the town of Rugby where it got its name from. However many will say rugby is actually descended from the Welsh game Canapin which is why today some of the best rugby players come from Wales and is a huge part of their national identity. Cricket was invented in South England in the 1500s and is one of the most long-winded sports that can last days to finish. Scotland is also a hub of inventing sports. The modern version of golf was also started in Scotland in the 16th century and water polo in the 19th century. Scotland is also most noted for their Highland games where a bunch of people in kilts compete in a series of strength-based events like the caver toss, Scottish hammer throw and the weight over bar toss. Oh by the way I did a DNA test came back 48% Scottish. I thought you were Polish. Yeah so a lot less Polish than what I thought. What? I mean it makes sense though. Don't take me in. It makes sense the gingery. The ginge. I'm Scottish. I should have known. In Northern Ireland it's not uncommon to see Gaelic football and hurling being played native to the island. The UK is also known for their weird and wacky sports and competitions people loving taking part in such as the Cooper Hill cheese rolling race thing, tar barrel racing, toe wrestling, shin kicking. Let's do that one. Pancake racing, the stinging nettle eating contest. Yeah I used to get stung by those things all the time when I was a kid. Like I cannot imagine eating those things. Gravy wrestling. These are weird. They even have a gurney contest which is where like in order to win you have to make like the ugliest face possible like this. In any case that's all I got for you. Cheerio, toodle pop, jolly good crumbly wrinkles, old chap and whatever. I'm gonna get that. This ginger is gonna skedaddle out of here. Toodle-loo. Thank you Art. Jay what are some of the biggest most notable traditions you've experienced living here? The day after Christmas we call it Boxing Day. The 26th of December is the extension of the holiday so you get yet another day off work and there's also a lot of football going on and lots of great stuff on the telly. I thought that was a day where you box each other because you're fighting over cheap prices at the grocery stores. Actually fun fact the reason it's called Boxing Day is... Barb's was kind of right. Originally it was supposed to be about giving gifts to the poor but now it's about getting half off deals at the mall. Yeah Boxing Day. Okay well good way to transition into the culture of the UK and with that let's bring it to our home girl. Hannah with the culture segment. Hey guys I'm back. Well actually now we're back. Nooooo! If you don't get it I'm pregnant. Hannah did a thing. And Ian. He was there too. Okay this is gonna be a heavy one because with the UK it's almost like you're getting an economy-sized multi-packaged deal of culture and tradition. For one you must distinguish between whether someone is from England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the overseas territories or Crown dependencies. To break it down a little easier you have the Celtic areas and then you have the English Saxons side. So let's start with a quick overview of Scotland. Cultural rule number one. Do not attempt the accent. Even if you think you're good at it just don't. You're not good at it. That was so bad. Historically Scotland was divided by clans each with their own territory. Each clan even had their own plaid tartan design and Scottish last names often have a map before it. Some very notable cultural aspects you will probably encounter at some point include Kaley dances, bagpipes. January 25th is a huge deal. When they celebrate Burns night, New Year's Eve is called Hogmanee. Fireball swinging. And the first person to enter the household is considered the bringer of good luck. And the iconic New Year's song Old Lang Syne. You know that song. Old Lang Syne. Who knew that's what they were saying? I was just making words up. Also everyone in Scotland will tell you to try a deep fried marge bar. As now Wales. Wales is a unique and very underrated place. It is the land of song, poetry, but at the same time hardcore rugby, shank-hiking dragons, and powerful castles. In Wales the daffodil is a symbol used for women and the leek used for men. Typical emblems of the daffodil or leek are worn on St. David's Day where people clean their rooms and are nice to one another. Are they not nice other days? So you get one day a year to be nice. And speaking of which, love spoons. In Wales traditionally a man would carve a spoon and give it to the woman he loved. They have the Mari Lloyd celebration where they put a horse's skull on a pole. The Don's Gum Rye. The Estid Fod is a huge deal. Every Welsh person will bring up Tom Jones. Moving on to Northern Ireland. This is a complicated one because it's kind of like if the UK and Ireland had a confusing baby that hadn't united any crisis. Avoiding all the complicated politics that go into this one. This area obviously has a more Irish Celtic influence and has a mix of Protestant Catholic peoples. This is the only place that allows people to freely choose to have either one or both citizenship of either the UK or Ireland. Keep in mind this is not the official flag of Northern Ireland. Just watch the show Dairy Girls. It does a great job at covering the general idea of what Northern Ireland was like especially at the end of the conflict era. England. It is in itself super complicated and culturally diverse. It is home to the monarchy which is a vital aspect of their identity. Keep in mind although certain individuals can be knighted for their accomplishments it is only a recognition not an inclusion into royalty. Generally speaking English regional cultures are mostly Anglo-Saxon based and concentrated in six areas. Speaking of which England has the widest range of classical architecture. You can find people living in Tudor style half timber thatched roofed homes next to Victorian next to Georgian next to Art Deco all in the same block. Also the UK loves to give regional nicknames to people. Liverpool people. Scowls. Birmingham are Broomies. Manchester is Manc. Newcastle is Geordie. Sunderland is Mackin. Devon and Plymouth folk are Janners. East Londoners are Cockney and they speak in a weird codified language. Much of what might be considered English culture was spurred off by the English Renaissance. The era created some of the most renowned authors and playwrights. Most notable the man himself William Shakespeare. As a nation the UK was the home of many inventions and discoveries. Way too many people to mention we'll just pop up a list here. Cinema has always been a huge part of UK culture and has been contributing to the world since 1888 when the first motion picture in the world was shot in Leeds by Louis Le Prince. Hey, Louis Le Prince was not British he was French. I know I'm just saying he made his motion picture in the UK. D'accord, tu peux continuer maintenant. Anywho. The fact that the American version of The Office was inspired by the UK version of The Office and that is one of our most like well-renowned television shows is amazing. I mean it's one it's one of my favorite tv shows of all time. Honestly I think we did better though come on. Kevin Malone best character. Kevin Malone? Our version of Dwight is way better than y'all's I'm so sorry. He really is. In any case the territories and crown dependencies all have their own unique traits as well. Jersey and Guernsey and the Isle of Man each have their own languages and confusing political systems. In Gibraltar people speak Yanito. The Pitcairn Islands has a Polynesian creel called Pit-Curne. Turks and Caicos has a Caribbean house evolution vote party and the Cayman Islands have an entire week dedicated to pirates. Well that was a lot and we didn't even cover a small fraction of everything that could be discussed with the UK culture. And of course one huge facet of UK culture is their music. And with that Keith is on tour. Can't leave his dream job to be here. So let's give this segment to a British musician. Guys say hi to David. And we got David here. Explain who you are. Introduce yourself. I'm a music nerd from the UK and I have a channel called David Bennett Piano. Britain has always had a rich musical culture. We had the Elizabethan lute music of John Downland, the grand Baroque music of Handel and at the start of the 20th century we had two of Britain's most influential composers Gustav Holst and Edward Elgar. But it wasn't really until the 1960s that British music became the global cultural export that it is today. Of course I'm talking about the British invasion where bands such as the Rolling Stones, the Kinks, the Animals and of course the Beatles took the world by storm. And then since that invasion the UK has continued to contribute to global popular music. Many genres of music can trace their origins back to the UK. Heavy metal for example was pioneered in the early 70s by the likes of Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple and many of prog rock's most iconic bands hailed from the UK including Pink Floyd, Yes and Genesis. Highly successful artists have hailed from every corner of the UK. The most famous Welsh musician is probably Sir Tom Jones, Northern Ireland has Van Morrison and Scotland's most successful musician is probably Calvin Harris. Britain has always had a strong history of folk music as well. Particularly in Scotland where Gaelic language music is still very popular with artists like Julie Fowless continuing the transition today. Queen, David Bowie, George Michael, Kate Bush, Oasis, Elton John, Radiohead, Muse, Coldplay, The Spice Girls, Ed Sheeran, Adele. Ever since that British invasion in the 1960s the UK has not stopped churning out culture defining music and I'm sure it will play a major part in popular music for decades to come. Thank you David. Actually guys if you didn't know Jay is a musician. You make music as well. Sometimes. What are some of your biggest inspirations in music? Is it really really boring and dull and uninteresting if I say that my favourite band is the Beatles? Yeah it kind of does. Sorry. BASIC! Well we covered so much in this segment. Jay what else can we talk about in this episode? Shall we do the friend zone? So obviously the UK has a lot of diversity and of course it's due to their history. As you can see Britain has had a fair few dealings with other countries around the world which brings us to… The animation… the motion graphic. First of all as a.