In 1994, physicist Miguel Alcubierre pondered whether the fictional concept of a faster-than-light warp drive, as depicted in Star Trek, could be described within the real physics of general relativity. Alcubierre took Einstein's field equations and did something rather unusual with them. Instead of taking a set of masses and energies whose distribution is described within the stress energy tensor on the right-hand side, T mu nu, and then calculating the corresponding curvature of space-time on the left-hand side, Alcubierre did the opposite. He started from a particular geometric structure, G mu nu, specifically a warp bubble, and then solved the corresponding masses and energies needed to make it happen, T mu nu. 

His solution, often called the Alcubierre Drive, has forever immortalized his name and inspired dozens of follow-up papers further investigating this topic. However, it's not really a drive. There's no blueprint for a spaceship here. Perhaps a better name would have been an Alcubierre Solution or a Field, but for whatever reason the name has stuck. 

The Alcubierre Solution involves a central region where passengers would reside of ordinary flat space-time. Behind them, the fabric of space expands and pushes the passengers forward, much like how the universe itself is currently expanding, thereby pushing galaxies apart from one another. Inside the bubble, the passengers can be stationary, yet the space within which they sit is moving, almost like an airport conveyor belt. 

So how do you warp space? Well, we already know that it's through mass, the same way that the sun bends space as Arthur Eddington proved in 1919. Here, a carefully engineered ultra-thin shell of material is used, much like an egg shell, that keeps space-time undisturbed both inside the bubble and far away from it, and yet it distorts space-time in just the right way around the ship. The real genius of this idea is that although mass cannot accelerate past the speed of light, space itself has no such rule, and thus this central region containing the passengers could travel at arbitrarily fast speeds. 

As exciting as it is, we need to take a beat, because the fact that a solution exists does not imply that an Alcubierre drive is actually physically plausible, and yet general relativity does not forbid such a machine. And so, there was hope. However, this is one of those topics that get sensationalized out of hand here on YouTube, and it can be difficult to figure out just how legitimate this idea is. 

There are six prominent obstacles to realizing Alcubierre's drive. The first is the energy and mass requirements. One of the first complaints levied against the drive was that it required outrageous amounts of energy. For example, soon after Alcubierre's paper, Fending and Ford estimated an engine requirement of something like 10 orders of magnitude greater than the mass of the observable universe. But in 1997, Chris van der Broek slightly modified the warp bubble shape to pull the energy down to just three solar masses. This is still a ridiculous amount of energy, but it shows the potential for further refinement and research. 

Another issue is that the actual shell of material needs to be incredibly thin, typically approaching the plank length in width. The plank length is thought to be the smallest measurable length, and at this scale, the universe itself is believed to look more like a quantum foam where known physics breaks down. So how severe of a problem is this? Despite the currently incomprehensible challenge of humanity ever reaching this kind of technical level, as far as we can tell, physics does not prohibit it. 

The second problem is the need for exotic matter. Whilst we're on the topic of energy requirements, there's one minor issue I forgot to mention. We need negative energy or interchangeably negative mass via equals mc squared. This was a problem recognized right from the outset of Alcubierre's original work and technically violates a rule in general relativity known as the weak energy condition or WEC. That rule states that all time like observers must see a positive energy density. 

Violating the weak energy condition implies the existence of negative energy or mass. Now, unfortunately, we don't know of any particle with negative mass, but physics also doesn't prohibit one either and hence such a particle would be described as exotic matter. The Kazimier effect is a well-known example of a negative energy pressure caused by the quantum vacuum effect between two very close plates and it has been the lifeline of hope for many warp optimists. However, it's important to note that this is really a negative relative to the background vacuum energy. If you took that vacuum energy away, there'd be no negative, so it's unclear whether this could be utilized for warping space. 

The third problem is the horizon problem. Soon after Alcubierre's paper, Sergei Krasnikov pointed out that the occupants of the ship would have no way to control, steer, or stop the vessel, or indeed interact with the outside world in any way. An observer located at some initial time cannot affect points outside of their future light cone, which would be required to affect the front of the bubble. Photons produced by the crew, say in an attempt to interact with the front side of the bubble, would simply pile up as they approach and remain at rest relative to the bubble's motion, never quite reaching the front. 

The fourth problem is radiation. As if the horizon problem was not worrisome enough, it unfortunately culminates in another issue though, radiation, explored in a recent paper by McMonagall and colleagues. Imagine a photon happily going along its way through the universe when from the rear, the FTL Alcubierre Drive catches up to it. Like a snowplow, the photon gets caught in the front of the bubble and dragged along at FTL speeds. 

The fifth problem is the chicken and egg problem. A series of papers have argued that a fatal flaw with the idea of a superluminal warp drive is that one needs one to make one a catch-22 situation. The Alcubierre metric, G-Mu-Nu, is a warping of space, but even if one achieves this warp bubble, that does not equal a superluminal warp drive. 

The final problem is causality. The final problem I'll discuss is causality violations, which really means that the warp drive can create closed time-like curves, CTCs, that is to say, backwards time travel. The problem here is that such a machine could potentially create paradoxes, such as the famous Grandfather paradox, where one uses a warp drive to go back, kill one's grandfather and thus meaning that you could not have travelled back in the first place since you were never born. 

In conclusion, while the Alcubierre Drive is an exciting concept, it faces numerous challenges that make it highly unlikely to be realized. However, the idea has inspired many and continues to be a topic of research and discussion. Despite the obstacles, the drive serves as a reminder of the potential for human ingenuity and the possibilities that may yet be discovered in the realm of physics.
