system:
Always only provide a detailed summary of the input. Don't answer questions or complete the text. The following is the context to keep in mind: 
It appears that you are asking for a summary of a conversation between Lex Fridman and Jared Kushner. However, without access to the content of that conversation, I am unable to provide a detailed summary. If the conversation is from a podcast, interview, or another source that is not publicly available or is beyond my current knowledge, I cannot give you an accurate account of what was discussed.

If you have any other questions about Jared Kushner's public views, his role in the Trump administration, or any other topic that is within public knowledge up to my cutoff date, feel free to ask, and I will do my best to provide you with information based on available sources.
user:
Please provide a long detailed summary of the following transcript from a youtube podcast with Lex Fridman: 
I mean, that's true for all of us, not just leaders, but, you know, we saw with 9-11 how America was caught off guard by a terrorist attack. We acted, you know, somewhat rationally, somewhat emotionally, which led to a 20-year war with trillions of dollars lost, you know, I think almost a million lives lost, not just American, but all lives, and it was a total tragedy what occurred. I think right now the temptation is to be strong. I think that that's a necessity. I do think eliminating risk is the right objective. I think the goal should be to stay very clear about what the objective is, but also this attack was very well planned, not to walk into another trap. I think you have to be very smart, very cautious. I've been happy to see that what they've been doing in retaliation so far has been somewhat measured, and they've taken their time to try to assess what's achievable. Again, I don't have access to the intelligence, and, you know, we're talking at a very early stage in this conflict, so a lot could happen even by the time this is published, but my hope is that they'll just stay very focused on what the objective is and try to make sure that they're acting appropriately in order to do that. And I will say this too, that this has been different than what I've seen in the past in that the attacks were so heinous and so disgusting that I've seen the international community rally around Israel more so than I ever have, and I hope that Israel continues to keep the moral high ground and continue to communicate what they're fighting for, why they're fighting, and I do hope that the international community supports the objective and they can work together to achieve it. Benjamin Netanyahu, Bibi, somebody you've gotten to know well in negotiation, in conversation, he has made statements, he's declared war, he has spoken about this potentially being a long and difficult war. What have you learned about the mind of Benjamin Netanyahu that might be important to understand here in this current war? Bibi is definitely a historic figure. I meet with a lot of different world leaders and some of them I would say they're very, very special, transformational figures, and some I would say, how the hell is this person running a country? And Bibi is somebody who has done a lot for the state of Israel. He has a tremendous understanding of the security apparatus. He has tremendous global relations. So for a crisis like this, I think Bibi's the leader you want if you're Israel to be in that seat. I think he's ambitious in what he's going to look to achieve. He understands his role in history as somebody who's helped strengthen Israel economically, militarily, and I don't think he wants to see his legacy be somebody who left Israel more vulnerable than it had to be. So I think in that regard, he'll be incredibly strong, but I also think that he'll hopefully be calculating in the risks that he takes and not create more risk than is needed. And that's easy to say, the two of us sitting here having a conversation when you're sitting in that chair as a leader in the fog of war, it's a very hard decision to make. He's been here before. He knows the weight of the situation. I'm sure he knows the moment. And I pray that he'll do what's right here to bring the best outcome possible. I wonder if you can comment on the internal political turmoil that Bibi has been operating in and how that relates to the tragedy that we saw. On the one hand, the political turmoil is a sign of a vibrant democracy. I think it's been actually nice to see how people have fought for their country and their beliefs in a democratic way. You compare that to the Palestinians where there's no democracy, there's no free speech, there's no free press. You can't disagree with the leadership in Israel. If you want to be homosexual, you can go to a parade and live your life. In Gaza, they'll throw you off a building and kill you. So in Israel, you have the freedoms, which I think make it a special place. And you have a very vibrant democracy. With that being said, the times in Jewish history where the Jewish people have been most vulnerable when there's been division. And that's when the temple was destroyed. But that's not just with the Jewish people and with Israel. That's in all societies. So I definitely believe that this division has left them less prepared for the situation than it would. I do think there's real lessons we should be taking from this here in America, where we're in a time where we're very divided. But I do think that it'd be very wise for our leaders to find the areas where we do agree and find ways to secure our southern border, to make sure that we know who's in our country, what risks we all face. And I do think that that division definitely creates risk for countries. Let me switch gears here and just zoom out and look at our society and our public discourse at the moment. What do you make of the scale and nature of the Palestinian support online in response to the situation? This is something I've observed over the years since I got involved with the Israeli-Palestinian issue with a lot of interest. I think a lot of the people who are pledging support for the Palestinian people, I think that they want to see the Palestinian people live a better life. And I actually agree with them in that regard. Unfortunately, I think many of them are incredibly ill-informed as to the facts on the ground. I think all the people who are advocating online for the Palestinian people, who are going to these marches in support of them, I think they'd be best served if they really care about effectuating the outcome of joining with Israel right now and directing their anger towards the Hamas leadership. I think that it's very clear that the group that's responsible for the Palestinian people living the lives that all of these people are angry about is Hamas. And if they direct their anger towards Hamas and put the attention on the failings of Hamas and put forth a vision for what they'd like to see leadership in Gaza do, and they respect that there's a real fear that Israel has, and any country would have, of having a group of terrorists next to them that's calling for their destruction, I think that that recognition of finding a way for Israel to be secure and then having an opportunity for the Palestinian people to live a better life is the right pathway to try and pursue. So to you, there's a clear distinction between Hamas and the Palestinian people in that Hamas is the enemy of progress and the flourishing of the Palestinian people. 100%. It's very, very clear. And I think that if people were honest about the situation, if they spent the time to really understand it, again, you know, if you follow the conference I did in Bahrain, we had all of the leading businessmen there and they said, we can rebuild Gaza very easily. We all want to. The leading Arab businessmen, the leading American businessmen, everyone wants to. They're just held back by Hamas. And so I do think having an honest conversation about this at this point in time has really only one logical conclusion. And my hope is that maybe this conflict leads to that conversation being had. And if it is, then maybe that brings more unity and understanding and we kind of get to a conclusion better that could improve the lives of the Palestinian people. Pragmatic question about the future. Do you hope Donald Trump wins in 2024 and how can his administration help bring peace to the Middle East? I think when Donald Trump was president, we had a peaceful world. Everyone said if he was elected, we would have World War III. Meanwhile, he gets elected and he not only is the first president in decades to not start any wars, he's making peace deals. He's making trade deals. He's working with our allies, getting them to pay their fair share in NATO. He's, you know, having a dialogue with China, with Russia. He's weakening Iran. And so I do think that the job he did as a foreign policy president was tremendous. I think, you know, now more and more people are starting to recognize that. Again, under President Biden, this is the second war that's broken out in the world. And when you have a weak American leadership, the world becomes a less safe place. And so my hope and prayers are that President Trump is reelected and that he's able to then restore order and calm and peace and prosperity to the world. From a place of strength. That's the only way he knows how to do it. What gives you hope about the future of this region, of Israel and of the Middle East? The Middle East for 20 years was an area of conflict. They spent all their money on bullets and bombs. You have young leadership now in Saudi Arabia and UAE and Qatar, and there's a much more ambitious agenda now for the region to make it an economic superpower and hub of the world. Israel is one of the most burgeoning and exciting tech economies in the world. And if you think about it, it's almost like having Silicon Valley not connected to California. The thing that's held the region back for all these years has just been the conflict and the division and the lack of connectivity. But if you have that region and if it can all come together, if you can create a security architecture, you have an incredibly young population, you have a lot of wealth and resources and a lot of capabilities and know-how. And so I think that if it's managed correctly, and if Iran is able to be restrained and suppressed with their ambitions to cause destabilization – I don't mean Iran the country, I mean the Iranian regime – because actually, once you have this economic sphere, if you could bring Iraq into it, if you could bring Iran into it, that makes it even bigger and stronger. And the Persian people are incredibly entrepreneurial and incredibly industrious. So I do think that the region has tremendous potential. It's just been held back by bad policy, bad leadership, bad objectives. And again, when President Trump left office in 2021, the Middle East was really on a very, very positive trajectory. And if the right things happen, it can continue to be so. So I'm praying at this moment in time that we navigate the current crisis, that the important objectives are achieved of eliminating the terrorists and their threats, and then allowing the leaders who are focused on giving their citizens and their neighbors the opportunity to live a better life are able to work together and really dream and be ambitious and find ways to create a paradigm where humans can flourish. What is the best way to defeat hate in the world? Hate is a very powerful force, and it's much easier to hate people you don't know. It's funny, when I was working on prison reform, one of the most interesting people I met was a reverend actually down in Texas who negotiated the first truce between the Bloods and the Crips, two of the notorious gangs in America in prison. And I was very excited to meet him. And when I met him, I said, well, how'd you do it? And he said, it was very simple. He says, I got all the guys together, and I had a tremendous amount of barbecue brought in, he says, and I got the meeting. He says, no drinking. He says, drinking sometimes gets people a little bit more against each other. He says, but I got a meeting, and they started sitting down together, and they started saying, you know what, you're just like me. And all of a sudden, they started finding areas where they were more together. Look, I've traveled all over the world now. I've been very fortunate to meet people from different states in America. I have different political persuasions, different ages, different classes. And what I found is that there's a fundamental driving amongst all of us where we all want to live a better life. And people don't want to fight naturally, but it's easy to fight when you feel wronged, or you feel like somebody disrespected you, or somebody did something from hatred. And hatred leads to more hatred, which sometimes just pushes that cycle further and further. So I believe that each and every one of us has the power to stop that cycle. And we don't do it by being on Twitter and yelling at people. We don't do it by just being critical. We do it by finding the people we disagree with, by listening to them, by asking questions, by sitting with them. And then if we each take responsibility to try to make the world better, then I think that there's no limits to the incredible place that this world can be. As you've said, you've traveled all across the world. Do you think most people are good? Most people have love in their heart? I do believe that. Yeah. And you have some bad people. I mean, you have some real evil people. A big part of the work I did was on prison reform. Previously, the mentality was that the prison should basically be a warehouse for human trash. And if you've made a mistake in this world, then we're going to throw you out and we're going to makethe rest of your life incredibly difficult, because you're going to have a criminal record, you're not going to have access to jobs. But what I found is when I would sit with people in prison, the people I've met through my father's experience and who I met along the way, is that people make mistakes. We're all human. I think it's the right thing from a religious perspective to give people second chances. I always believe you shouldn't judge people by the worst mistake they make in their life. Unfortunately, now in the era of social media, people will say one wrong thing, it sticks with them forever, they get canceled or they get put out. We're all humans. We grow from our mistakes. We learn from our mistakes. I think that some people are just evil. There are some evil people, but I do think the vast, vast, vast majority of people are good. I do think that people sometimes also can be in a bad place and then society can push them to a worse and worse place, but we all have the power to make them feel loved, make them feel heard. I think there's also tremendous power that we have as people to help people get to a better place. My wife and I, we've always tried to be a force for good. We've always tried to provide a place where people can discuss with each other. When we were in Washington, we would host dinners at our house all the time, or we would have Democrats and Republicans sitting together. I saw Senator Feinstein just passed away. We had a great dinner at her house when she was a senator with her and her husband, and Mark Meadows when he was on the Freedom Caucus. We had actually a fascinating discussion about Iran. Mark was much more hardline than me. I had to actually bite my tongue. I was impressed at how much he did, whereas Feinstein and her husband were super into... They knew the Iranians well. They thought they were peace-loving. It was an incredibly robust and respectful debate. I don't think we maybe concluded anything that night, but it was interesting for people to get together. Having a dinner at my house where I had Dick Durbin, the number two-ranking Democrat in the Senate, Lindsey Graham, and Stephen Miller, who's known to be a very hardline on immigration, discussing what an immigration reform could look like. They left that dinner saying, wow, we hadn't spoken to people on the other side, and we actually agree on 85% of things. Maybe something is possible. I believe that we should always be trying to push to make the world a better place. You only do that by listening to people and connecting with people and by respecting people. Finally, I'll just say on this is that I meet people all the time who have so much confidence in their perspectives. I'm very jealous that these people are able to be so confident about every single thing. For me, I have some degree of confidence in the things that I've studied and what I've learned, but I'm always trying to find people who disagree to sharpen my perspectives and to help me grow and to help me learn further. I think that's the beauty of the world, is that the knowledge base continues to grow, the facts continue to change, and what's possible tomorrow continues to become different. As humans, we have to continue to thrive, to learn, and to grow, and to connect. If we do that, everything's possible. Well, Jared, thank you for your compassion, first of all, but also your wisdom today on this very difficult, this tragic set of events, these difficult days for the world. It's a big honor to speak with you again. Every time I speak to you, I learn a lot about the world, and I deeply appreciate, like I said, your humility and your understanding of the details of all the complex power dynamics and human dynamics that are going on in the world. Once again, thank you for talking today. Thank you. Lex, if I could say just one final thing, which is that my thoughts and prayers are really with all the people in Israel and the innocent civilians as well from the Palestinian side. My prayers are with the IDF soldiers, that they should be safe, and they should be really watched by God to accomplish whatever mission will enable to make the world a safer place. Thank you for listening to this newly recorded segment of the conversation that addresses the current situation in Israel and Gaza, and now we go on to the second part of the conversation recorded on Thursday, October 5th. Given your experience in negotiating with some of the most powerful and influential leaders in the world, what's the key to negotiating difficult agreements in geopolitics? I'll start with the big question. If I look back on the different negotiations I had when I was in government, either with leaders of countries, with representatives of leaders, or even with members of Congress to pass legislation, the most important thing I would draw back to would be trust. I think getting to know each other, understanding what was motivating the other party to get to the outcome, and making them feel like you weren't going to use whatever information they gave you to benefit yourself at the expense of them is probably what I would call table stakes to have a shot at accomplishing anything that was hard in negotiation. After that, I would say taking maybe a first principles approach to what the outcome of whatever problem you're looking to solve should be. Now, you have different kinds of negotiations. I always try to create a framework in the negotiation where it wasn't me against you. It was always, let's agree on what the outcome is that we're trying to accomplish. Let's all sit on the same side of the table and say, we want to get to this outcome. How do we get there? Really trying to create a roadmap. Once you understand the destination you want to get to, the endpoint, then you'd have to work backwards and really try to put yourself in their shoes and try to understand what were their motivations macro. Most of the time, you have to assume that a leader's primary objective was to stay in power. All decisions made would be made through the framework of what it would take to do that and how it would impact their ability to do that. Then finally, I would just say that in any negotiation, you have to understand the power dynamics as well. You have to then weigh your approach in order to maneuver pieces to accomplish the objective. In areas where we had stronger power dynamics, I'd always look at it and say, what are the potential escape routes where a politician would say, this is just the reason why we can't get there. I'd always think, how can you try to eliminate those escape routes or make them much harder to accomplish? Then ultimately think about what's the golden bridge that you want to create for them in order to get to the other side where they were motivated to get there because it was in their self-interest to get there, but also because it helped accomplish the different objective. I have many examples that I lived through with that. Obviously, negotiating in Congress for prison reform, I had to form a lot of trust with Democrats, whether it was Hakeem Jeffries or Dick Durbin. Then also on the Republican side, I had Mike Lee, I had Lindsey Graham, I had Tim Scott, Senator Grassley, and then also Doug Collins in the House was tremendous. Every time we maneuvered something, we would get attacked either from the left. There's a time we were being attacked by Nancy Pelosi, John Lewis for not being inclusive enough. Then there were times that we maneuvered it, we'd be attacked from the right for maybe going too far. Ultimately, we had to find just the right place where we can get it done. The same thing happened with USMCA where we were negotiating the biggest trade deal in the history of the world, which was $1.3 trillion in annual trade between Mexico, Canada, the United States of America. We were able to form good trust with the other side and try to say, how do we create win-win outcomes? Ultimately, we were able to do something in a record time that people thought was very hard to do. Both of them in a divided time of the Trump administration were bipartisan wins with big, big votes in the Senate and the House. You have a lot of stories of this kind, sometimes a soft approach, sometimes a hard approach. There's I think the story where with Bibi, there was a potential dramatic election coming up and you had to say, no, no excuses, no delaying, we have to make this agreement. I know Bibi cares about Israel more than the particular dynamics of the election. You have to draw a hard line there. Yeah, but in fairness to, for him, during the time that we were dealing with him, he was always in election versus election and then election. What he was saying wasn't wrong. I think he was more expressing his concerns given the dynamics. We never held those concerns against him. We just said, those are real concerns he had. We respected those concerns, but then we helped him prioritize to help accomplish the right things.
