I think previously with Project Blue Book, yes, but currently I don't speak for the United States government. Okay. Thank you. I have a few questions for Mr. Graves. What percentage of UAP sightings, in your belief, go unreported by our pilots? This is an approximation based off of my personal experience speaking with a number of pilots, but I would estimate we're somewhere near 5% reporting, perhaps. So like 95% basically don't report seeing UAPs? That's just my personal estimate. In the incident off Virginia Beach, do you believe the Navy took the danger to your aircraft seriously after it was reported? Absolutely. A few questions for Mr. Faber. As an expert naval aviator, have you ever seen an object that looked and moved like the Tic Tac UAP? No. Did the Tic Tac UAP move in such a way that defied the laws of physics? The way we understand them, yes. Many dismiss UAP reports as classified weapons testing by our own government, but in your experience as a pilot, does our government typically test advanced weapons systems right next to multi-million dollar jets without informing our pilots? No, we have test ranges for that. It took over 15 years for your encounter with the Tic Tac to be declassified. Do you feel there was a good reason to prevent lawmakers from having access to this footage? No, I just think it was ignored when it happened and it just sat somewhere in a file. Never got reported. In a drawer. It happens a lot up here. Shocker. Mr. Gresh, a couple of questions for you too, sir, this morning. What percentage of UAPs do you feel are adequately investigated by the U.S. government? Of the 5% that are reported. I can only speak for my personal leadership over at NGA. I tried to look at every report that came through that I could triage. Do you believe that officials at the highest levels of our national security apparatus have unlawfully withheld information from Congress and subverted our oversight authority? There are certain elected leaders that had more information that I'm not sure what they've shared with certain gang of eight members or etc., but certainly I would not be surprised. You've stated that the government is in possession of potentially non-human spacecraft. Based on your experience and extensive conversations with experts, do you believe our government has made contact with intelligent extraterrestrials? Something I can't discuss in a public setting. Okay, I can't ask when you think this occurred. If you believe we have crashed craft, stated earlier, do we have the bodies of the pilots who piloted this craft? As I've stated publicly already in my News Nation interview, biologics came with some of these recoveries, yeah. Were they, I guess, human or non-human biologics? Non-human and that was the assessment of people with direct knowledge on the program I talked to that are currently still on the program. And was this documentary evidence, video, photos, eyewitness, how would that be determined? The specific documentation I would have to talk to you in a SCIF about. Gotcha. Okay, so, and you may or may not be able to answer my last question and maybe we get into a SCIF at the next hearing that we have, but who in the government either, what agency, sub-agency, what contractors, who should be called into the next hearing about UAPs, either in a public setting or even in a private setting, and you probably can't name names, but what agencies or organizations, contractors, et cetera, do we need to call in to get these questions answered, whether it's about funding, what programs are happening, and what's out there? I can give you a specific cooperative and hostile witness list of specific individuals that were in those. And how soon can we get that list? I'm happy to provide that to you after the hearing. Super, thank you. And I yield back. Okay, now we have Mr. Langworthy's ear. Okay. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank all of the witnesses for being here today to discuss this very unique topic. And I'd like to jump right into my questions if you don't mind. Commander Fravor, can you briefly describe your background? Yeah, I was an enlisted Marine, Naval Academy graduate, Navy, flew for 18 years, got a master's from University of Houston, and I've worked in the private sector for the last, what now, 19, 16 years, 17 years. I do a lot of defense work. Really gold-plated credentials. Commander Fravor, we've all seen the floating Tic Tac video that you engaged with on November 14th, 2004. Can you briefly talk about why you were off the coast of San Diego that day? Yeah, we were at a workup with all the battle groups. So we integrate the ships with the carrier, the air wing with the carrier, and we start working. So we were doing an air-to-air defense to hone not only our skills, but those of the USS Princeton when they had been tracking them for two weeks. The problem was that there was never manned aircraft airborne when they were tracking them. And this was the first day. And unfortunately, we were the ones airborne and went and saw it. Do you remember the weather that day? Was it cloudy or windy or anything out of the ordinary on the Pacific coast? It was actually, if you're familiar with San Diego, it was a perfect day. Light winds, no whitecaps. Clear skies, not a cloud. For flying, it was the best. Now, is it true that you saw, in your words, a 40-foot flying Tic Tac-shaped object? That's correct. Or for some people that can't know what a Tic Tac is, it's a giant flying propane tank. Fair enough. Did this object come up on radar or interfere with your radar or the USS Princeton? The Princeton tracked it. The Nimitz tracked it. The E-2 tracked it. We never saw it on our radars. Our fire control radars never picked it up. The other airplane that took the video did get it on a radar. As soon as it tried to lock it, it jammed the radar, spit the lock, and he rapidly switched over to the targeting pod, which you can do in the F-18. From what you saw that day and what you've seen on video, did you see any source of propulsion from the flying object, including on any potential thermal scans from your aircraft? No, there's none. There's no IR plume coming out. And Chad, who took the video, went through all the EO, which is black-and-white TV, and the IR modes, and there's no visual signs of propulsion. It's just sitting in space at 20,000 feet. In your career, have you ever seen a propulsion system that creates no thermal exhaust? No. Can you describe how the aircraft maneuvered? Abruptly, very determinate. It knew exactly what it was doing. It was aware of our presence, and it had acceleration rates. I mean, it went from zero to matching our speed in no time at all. Now, if the fastest plane on Earth was trying to do these maneuvers that you saw, would it be capable of doing that? No, not even close. And just to confirm, this object had no wings, correct? No wings. Now, was the aircraft that you were flying, was it armed? No, it never felt threatened at all. If the aircraft was armed, do you believe that your aircraft or any aircraft in possession of the United States could have shot the Tic-Tac down? I'd say no. Just on the performance, it would have just left in a split second. It looks like we have a problem here that needs further investigation. Yes. In your belief, is this flying Tic-Tac, I mean, is it capable of being the product of any other nation on the Earth? No, actually, like I said earlier, I think it defies current material science and the ability to develop that much propulsion. And I know there's been some physicists have done calculations, which is beyond anything that we have. Well, either the United States has an adversary here in this world that we don't know, or we really have some serious investigations to do. I really appreciate you being here. Is there anything else about the November 14, 2004 incident that you think is important for this committee to know that you haven't been asked here today? No, you know, it's been said it's probably the most credible UFO sighting in history based on all the sensors that were tracking it. And then for us to get visual and to go against the naysayers, it's something on the screen or whatever. I mean, there's four sets of human eyeballs. We're all very credible. Of the six of us that were involved in the thing, including the video, every one of us is going to do 20 plus years in the military in very responsible positions. I would say the world needs to know that. It's not a joke. Well, thank you very much for your testimony here today for all of you. And I yield back, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alvarez. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you all for being here and the courage it took to come forward. And again, the sacrifice that each of you have made. I serve on the National Security Subcommittee for the Financial Services Committee. So I really want to stay in the national security lane, if I may. So when we think about traditional adversaries and both us towards them and them towards us, you know, we probe their capabilities. We look for weaknesses and we collect that data, that reconnaissance for in the event we need it in the future. For each of you, yes or no question. Based off of your own experience or the data that you've been privy to, is there any indication that these UAPs could be essentially collecting reconnaissance information? Mr. Graves. Yes. Mr. Grush. Fair assessment. Mr. Fravor. Very possible. Again, in the national security vein, is it possible that these UAPs would be probing our capabilities? Yes or no. Mr. Graves. Yes. Grush. Yes. Fravor. Definitely. Is it possible that these UAPs are testing for vulnerabilities in our current systems? Yes. Yes. Possible. Do you feel, based off of your experience and information that you've been privy to, that these UAPs provide an existential threat to the national security of the United States? Mr. Graves. Potentially. Yes, sir. Potentially. Same answer. Potentially. I'd say definitely. Potentially. Mr. Graves and Fravor, you know, in the event that your encounters have become hostile, would you have had the capability to defend yourself, your crew, your aircraft? Absolutely not, sir. No. Is, based off of the information that you've been privy to, is there any indication that these UAPs are interested in our nuclear technology and capabilities? Yes. By external observation, sure, that could be a fair assessment, yeah. Yes. Is there any indication that the Department of Energy is involved in UAP data collection and housing? I don't have an answer. I can't confirm or deny that in a public setting. Could you do it in a secure setting? Yes. Mr. Fravor. No, I don't know. Mr. Chairman, you know, I think I'm the last member to go, but there clearly is a threat to the national security of the United States of America. As members of Congress, we have a responsibility to maintain oversight and be aware of these activities so that, if appropriate, we take action. I would encourage the Chairman to demand that we have any and all, but in particular Mr. Grush, talk to us in a SCIF, and if that access is denied, I will personally volunteer to initiate the Holman Rule against any personnel or any program or any agency that denies access to Congress. Mr. Chairman, with that, I will yield the remainder of my time to my fellow colleague from Tennessee, Mr. Burchard. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Ogles, for the great questions, brother. Mr. Grush, I might have asked this before, but I want to make sure, do you have any personal knowledge of someone who's possibly been injured working on legacy UAP reverse engineering? Yes. Okay. How were they injured? Was it, is it something like a radioactive type situation or something we didn't understand? I've heard people talk about Havana Syndrome type incidences. What was your recollection of that? I can't get into specifics, but you can imagine assessing an unknown unknown. There's a lot of potentialities you can't fully prepare for. How do you think we ought to handle UAP whistleblower complaints like yours in the future? Yeah, there was some issue with mine. So, you know, PPD-19 process, it goes to the intel committees, either through PPD-19 or ICD-120. There's not a good way for the intelligence community inspector general to provide that to other committees. And I asked... my information to be sent to the House and Senate Armed Services Committee because there are Title 10 equities at play, but there was no smooth process to do so. Yeah. That's a trash can. Are you aware of any individuals that are participating in reverse engineering programs for non-terrestrial craft? Personally yes. Mm-hmm. Do you know any that would be willing to testify if there were protections for them? Certainly closed door and assurances, breaking their NDA, they're not going to get administratively punished for so. Yeah. I yield. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We're going to do something a little bit out of the ordinary here.