The United Kingdom (UK) is a permanent member of the UN Security Council and a founding member of various international organizations such as the G7, NATO, World Trade Organization, and Council of Europe. Despite the Brexit situation, the UK still maintains diplomatic ties and trade deals with the European Union (EU), although there are differences in certain legislative issues. The UK has spent the last century coming to terms with its past as a colonial power, but its influence is still felt globally through the English language, cricket, and similar systems of government. Many countries that were once part of the British Empire are now members of the Commonwealth of Nations, with the monarch serving as the figurehead head of state for many of them. The UK has close relations with Commonwealth countries, with significant diaspora communities from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ghana, and the Caribbean settling in the UK. While the UK historically had a rivalry with France, they have been on the same team in global conflicts since World War II. The relationship between the UK and Ireland has improved, with close ties between the citizens of both countries. Australia and Spain have the largest communities of British nationals living abroad, with Australia being a popular destination for British immigrants seeking a warmer climate. The UK's closest friends are often considered to be the USA and Canada, with the USA gaining full independence and Canada gradually gaining more autonomy while remaining part of the Commonwealth. The shared language and cultural similarities have strengthened the relationship between the UK and the USA, with both countries exchanging films, TV shows, and music. The UK acts as a link between North America and Europe. In conclusion, the UK is a modern progressive country that aims to leave a positive impact on the world, despite its complex history. British people have a sense of patriotism, and when abroad, they care about their country and dislike it when the flag is flown upside down.