The House subcommittee on International Development, International Organizations, and Global Corporate Social Impact hearing focused on the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan. The witnesses, who were involved in the planning and implementation of the withdrawal, included Colonel Seth Krummrich, Colonel Christopher D. Kolenda, and Command Sergeant Major Jacob Smith. The concerns raised during the hearing included a failure to follow the Doha agreement, a selective use of intelligence to support predetermined strategies, poor timing for the withdrawal during the Taliban’s fighting season, and inadequate time for the Department of Defense and agencies to plan and execute the withdrawal. The panelists also noted the impact of hurried withdrawal tactics, which they argued undermined the morale of the Afghan military and facilitated the Taliban's return to power. They recommended thorough oversight and revisions to policy and strategy to prevent repeating past failures in future military interventions.The House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a joint meeting where they questioned several experts regarding the U.S.'s military withdrawal from Afghanistan and the actions that led to it. Among those questioned were Command Sergeant Major (Ret.) Eddie Smith, Colonel Mark V. Krumich and Dr. Christopher Kolenda. The meeting centred around the question of whether the decision to withdraw was advisable and whether it might have been handled better.

C.S.M. Smith spoke of meeting with a U.S. embassy site survey team and advising against the use of H Kaya, a position that he later said was not taken into consideration. He also suggested that a larger military presence might have been desirable at H Kaya to stave off the approaching Taliban.

Colonel Krumich reiterated several times throughout the meeting that the execution of the military withdrawal, while successful, did not go as planned due to the lack of cooperation from the Taliban. He stated that the Biden administration ignored the advice of several four-star generals leading to the situations that caused the deaths of several service members in Afghanistan.

Dr. Kolenda stated that there needs to be a national security doctrine in the U.S., as well as an individual in charge of U.S. efforts on the ground during wartime, to prevent the level of miscommunication and lack of coordination that occurred during the Afghan withdrawal. He also called for clearer terms for war termination and the creation of an expert body of knowledge on executing wartime negotiations.

The speakers also addressed other subjects, such as the repercussions of the Doha agreement, the possible expansion of the Afghan adjustment agreement to increase the number of visas provided to Afghans, and the question of whether the withdrawal might have been carried out more effectively.The speaker acknowledges the witnesses' service and expresses gratitude for their testimony. Critics denounce President Biden's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan, citing the losses sustained throughout the 20-year conflict and the subsequent takeover by the Taliban. They suggest that the withdrawal was one of the worse experiences they'd had and reference the fallen soldiers, separated families, trillions spent, and now Taliban training bases as an indication of the mission's failure. The speaker supports the idea that lessons should be learned from the withdrawal. Colonel Crommer then discusses the mistakes made during the withdrawal and the aftermath.In this section of the hearing, topics such as command climate, selective intelligence, and accountability in light of the Afghanistan withdrawal are discussed in detail. The witnesses, who are all military personnel, recount their experiences of the withdrawal and discuss how it was executed. They note a lack of transparency, lack of proper planning, and disregard for their feedback in the decision-making process. They discuss the disconnect they felt between their duty to execute unpopular decisions made by top-level military and government leaders, many of whom they felt were not listening to their concerns. 

The witnesses express frustration that those leaders have not accepted responsibility or acknowledged mistakes made during the withdrawal process. They call out the continued failed policies and lack of learning from past mistakes. The witnesses also state that they felt unsupported and misunderstood by the top of the chain of command, feeling their concerns were not taken seriously.

Additionally, the witnesses speak about the abandonment of vital military equipment and the use of selective intelligence within the Biden administration. They speak of feeling abandoned by the administration and note that the inconsistency between administration statements and the reality on the ground was evident. 

Moreover, the hearing reveals that many of the witnesses feel that no one has been held accountable for the withdrawal debacle, despite the significant loss of American and Afghan lives and the vast amount of abandoned military equipment. The witnesses call for more accountability within the Biden administration and the top of the military chain of command. 

In conclusion, the hearing predominantly centres around the lack of discipline, planning, accountability, and support in the Afghanistan withdrawal process, with the witnesses expressing strong feelings of disappointment and dissatisfaction with the perceived lack of leadership and foresight displayed by military and government leaders.The US House Foreign Affairs Committee held a hearing regarding the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, discussing whether there had been enough planning and preparation. The session included testimony from service members and a Gold Star family (a family that has lost a member in military service). The committee recognized the service of the witnesses and thanked the families for their sacrifice. 

The committee discussed the preparedness and decision-making processes related to the withdrawal, with criticisms regarding a lack of adequate planning and ignoring potential consequences. There were also concerns raised about the lack of accountability for the deadly and embarrassing withdrawal, and if there had been a willful ignorance that resulted in needless loss of life. 

The hearing highlighted the decision to close down the Bagram military base in Afghanistan, which some argued led to the disastrous situation in Kabul. Members of the committee pressed for a more detailed unpacking of how these decisions were made, and made a commitment to fight for accountability. 

There was also disagreement about comments made by President Biden and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin about the withdrawal, with some members arguing their statements were misrepresented. Some members also criticized the committee's majority for not calling current administration officials to testify. There was recognition that while mistakes were made, the situation was complex and decisions were made with the information available at the time. 

As a result of the hearing, members committed to ensuring that lessons are learned from this operation to better conduct future military actions.